This is Jockel Podcast number 54.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, I go.
Good evening.
uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
You got some Shakespeare right there.
You got some Henry IV part two.
And that play is a play that came just prior to Henry V, the hero, the warrior, the leader
of that few, that happy few, that band of brothers.
Well, his dad, Henry IV, was having a rough time in the kingdom facing rebellion.
And there's a point in the play where he, the old man, Henry IV, he can't sleep.
Can't sleep because the pressure, the pressure and the weight of being a leader.
And it's a great, it's a great chunk of the play.
And it starts with that line.
On easy lies the head that wears a crown.
And it actually doesn't start with that line, that's the last line.
It starts off a little different.
It starts off here.
How many thousand of my poorest subjects are at this hour asleep?
So he's saying, hey, out there, you know, there's thousands and thousands of my subjects.
They're out there asleep in right now.
So sleep, oh, gentle sleep, nature's soft nurse, how have I frightened me?
That thou will, that thou no more will weigh my eyelids down and steep my senses in
forgetfulness.
So he's talking to sleep.
Sleep is like a, like a god to him at this point.
And he said, what did I do to scare you off?
What do I do? What can you bring me that goodness?
Wait down my eyes.
Going back, why rather sleep?
Myest thou in smoky cribs upon uneasy pallets stretching the and hushed with buzzing
night flies to thy slumber?
And in perfumed chambers of the great under the canopies of costly state and lulled with
sound of sweetest melody.
So he's asking sleep.
He's saying, look, sleep.
You're there.
You're there hanging out with the smoky filthy houses and hovels and people are sleeping
on boards and to low people are sleeping.
Those situations, it's insects buzzing around their heads.
You sleep's all there.
Taking care of those people.
But sleep doesn't come to him in the most beautiful in the most luxurious, astate rooms,
where there's a little gentle music playing.
No bugs flying around.
It's a gentle music playing.
Back to the play, oh thou doggard, why lieest thou with the vile in loen some beds and
leaveest thy kingly couch, a watch case, or a common larym bell.
So same, same subject he's saying, look, why do you doggard, so dogg meaning sleeping?
Don't worry, why are you hanging around the nastiest beds, but you know, this beautiful
bed, you don't come near it.
You leave it vacant, like a watch tower, like a bell tower.
Will thou upon the high and giddy mast seal up the ship boys eyes?
So now he's talking to start talking about even a sailor at sea.
High up on a mast, right, a giddy mast.
You seal up the ship boys eyes and rock his brains in cradle of the rude, imperious
surge.
And in the visitation of winds who take the ruffian billows by the top curling their monstrous
heads and hanging them with deafening clamor in the slippery clouds that with the
early death itself awakes.
So he's saying this sailor, there's a sailor at sea who's getting punished by the storm
and the thunder is cropping and the ship is bounding back and forth.
But guess what?
He gets to fall asleep.
He goes to sleep, no problem.
It's thou oparsal sleep, give thy repose to the wet sea boy in an hour so rude and in
the calmest and most stillest night with all appliances and means to boot the night to a
king.
So he's saying again, in an hour so rude storms mayhem at sea.
He gives the, he gives the sailor sleep.
But in this calmest and most stillest night with every available luxury to boot, yet
sleep is denied to the king.
And then he says, then happy low lie down, uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
So then happy low lie down, he's saying, look, low by low, he means the peasants.
He's like, all right, then you happy happy low, you peasants lie down, lie down, sleep.
That's what you get.
But uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
The leader doesn't get to rest.
The leader doesn't get to sleep.
And that's another example of what we know and that is that leadership is hard.
It's a heavy burden, it's hard business and it's part science and part art.
And part of it is natural ability and part of it is learned and the book that we're going
to dive into today, it isn't Shakespeare.
That's actually a military manual, military manual written by SLA Marshall, but guided
by George C. Marshall and Dwight D. Eisenhower.
This book was written just after World War II.
Now, if you remember Hackworth, if you read about face, Hackworth talks about Marshall,
SLA Marshall and he did some writing in Vietnam that Hackworth was a little bit
not impressed with.
And there's certainly some controversy about SLA Marshall and some of the things that he wrote
in some of the things that he said that he lived through, there's some controversy,
if not proven fact that he fabricated some stuff.
But I think you're going to find as we dive into this book, that from a leadership perspective,
the experiences that he did bring back from World War I, the experiences that he got from
Eisenhower and from the other Marshall.
I think it's a really good reflection in a good look at some leadership lessons learned
that we can take something from.
Now, the book is actually called the Armed Forces Officer, very simple title, and the
version that I'm going through, because this book is still in publication, the version that
I'm going through is from 1950, 1950 version.
Like I said, it's written in just after World War II, obviously, so the lessons are fresh.
And I guess that the new version has been cleaned up or something.
There's, I guess that the 1950s version isn't fully politically correct.
I don't know because to be frank, I haven't read the new version, because I got the old
version.
I want the real deal.
And I don't find anything offensive in this one, so maybe someone else will.
I guess there's some things that might be a little bit borderline, but yeah, I'm not,
I'm not really feeling it.
And this book was given me a long time ago by a friend of mine that said, you might
like this.
And he specifically said, this boy, they'll make this one anymore.
But guess what?
Everyone's in love because they do.
They brought it back.
So the book is the Armed Forces Officer, and it really goes into how to lead, how to lead.
So go into the book.
To call forth great loyalty and other people and to harness it to any noble undertaking, one
must first be sensible of their finer instincts and feelings.
Certainly, these things at least are among the gentle qualities which are desired in every
military officer of the United States.
So here's some basic things that the officers, the military are supposed to have.
One, strong belief in human rights.
Two, respect for the dignity of every other person.
Three, the golden rule attitude toward one's daily associates.
Four, an abiding interest in all aspects of human welfare.
Five, a willingness to deal with every man as considerably as if he were a blood relative.
So pretty simple rules.
Respect other people.
The golden rule, you know, treat people how you want to be treated yourself.
These are the basis what they're saying, you need to be.
And again, let's not actually, I was going to go into this, but they're going to go into
themselves.
Here we go.
Back to the book.
The epitome of strength, not of softness.
They marked a man who's capable of pursuing a great purpose consistently in spite of temptations.
He who possesses them will all the more surely be regarded as a man among men.
Take any crowd of new recruits.
The greater number of them during their first few days in service will use more profanity
and obscenity.
Let's talk more about women and boast more about drinking than they have ever done in their
lives because of the mistaken idea that this is the quick way to get a reputation for being
a hard-boiled.
But at the same time, the one or two men among them who stay decent, talk moderately
and walk the line of duty will uniquely receive the infinite respect of the others.
It never fails to happen.
So little contrary to what we might think.
And there's definitely, when you get the military and you're going through boot camp,
there's all kinds of people act in tough guys.
All kinds of people act in tough guys.
And that happens to see one thing that happens in boot camp.
I bet I met more potential professional athletes when I was going through.
When I was going through boot camp, everyone was, I was about to go in the NFL.
I was about to be a pro baseball player.
I don't know why, but they end up in the military.
Yeah, it is interesting.
That kind of like the guy who's 500 in the streets.
Yeah.
They come to the MMA gym.
That guy doesn't work out too well.
Alright, and obviously I'm abridging this book a little bit, skipping through.
Here we go back to the book, Men Be Get Good Will in Other Men by Giving It.
They develop courage and they're following mainly as a reflection of the courage, which
they show in their own action.
These two qualities of mind and heart are the essence of sound, officer ship.
One is of little avail without the other and either helps to sustain the other.
So you got goodwill and you got courage and they help each other and they sustain each other.
Back to the book, as to which is the stronger force in its impact upon the masses of men.
No truth is more certain than the words once written by William James.
Evident, though the shortcomings of a man may be, if he is ready to give up his life
for a cause, we forgive him everything.
However inferior he may be to ourselves and other respects, if we cling to life while
he throws it away like a flower, we bow to his superiority.
So I guess courage gets the stronger nod out of that situation.
Back to the book, Peter Roosevelt once said, if he had a son who refrained from any worthwhile
action because of the fear of hurt to himself, he would disown him.
Soon after his return to civilian life, General Dwight D. Eisenhower spoke of the
worthy worth whileness of living dangerously.
On officer of the United States armed forces cannot go far wrong if he holds these ideas.
It is not the suitable profession for those who believe only in digging in and nursing a soft
snap until death comes at a ripe old age.
Who risks nothing gains nothing.
Nor should there be any room in it for professional smugness, small jellacies and undue
concern about privilege.
So you can't be hiding all the time.
You got to step up, you got to lead, you got to take some risk, you got to leave dangerously.
Now of course, young troopers out there, especially guys out on the battlefield, this doesn't
mean running to your death.
That's not what it means.
You will take risk in business world, you'll take risk.
In the military, you'll take risk.
If you do either in business or in a military, you take risk stupidly, you'll die or you'll
lose all your money.
Neither one of those is good.
But that doesn't mean you hide and doesn't mean you take no risk and you shy away.
Now the next part, when he's talking about small jellacies and undue concern about privilege,
this eats people up and destroys people.
And that light here we go back to the book towards services other than his own.
Any officer is expected to have both a comradly feeling and an imaginative interest.
Any army officer is a better man for having studied the works of Admiral Mayhand and familiar
lies himself with the modern navy from first-hand experience.
Those who lead sea going forces can enlarge their own capacities by knowing more rather
than less about the nature of the air and ground establishments.
The sub-mariner can always learn something useful to his own work by mingling with airmen.
The airmen becomes a better officer as he grows in qualified knowledge of ground and
sea fighting.
So you've got to learn.
Working with other industries?
Learn about those industries.
Learn as much as you can.
Don't just stay in your own little world because your comfort lesson would happen to
a lot of us.
You get comfortable in your own world so that's what you want to stay in.
You don't want to look bad.
You don't want to appear to be ignorant.
And Admiral Mayhand is kind of the, well, he was a civil war Admiral as a matter of fact,
but wrote a book called The Influence of Sea Power Upon History, which the Germans and
the Japanese both utilized against the whole world, too.
So a little bit of a little bit of a risk there, but it's also something that guided the
fought and the building of the modern US Navy.
Now we talk a little bit about what life is like in the military back to the book.
The military way is a long, hard road.
And it makes extraordinary requirements of every individual.
In war, particularly it puts stresses upon men such as they have not known elsewhere.
And the temptation to get out from under would be irresistible if their spirits had not
been tempered to the ordeal.
So you got to be ready for the hardest.
You got to do things in your life that get you ready for the hardness back to the book.
If nothing but fear, and this is what we're getting to some leadership, if nothing but
fear of punishments were dependent upon to hold men to the line during extreme trial,
the result would be wholesale, mutiny, and a situation altogether beyond the control of leadership.
So if the only thing, the only reason that your people are following you because it's
because of fear of punishment, when the going gets hard, that's not going to work.
So it must be true that it is the out, that is out of the impact of ideals.
Out of the impact of ideals, mainly that men develop the strength to face situations,
which would be normal to run away, which it would be normal to run away.
So during the normal routine of peace, members of the armed services are expected to respond
to situations that are more extensive, more complex, then take longer to reach fulfillment
than the situations to which the majority of men instinctively respond.
So things in the military take a long time in your big part of that in a peace time,
big bureaucratic machine, it can be really challenging.
Even the length of the enlistment period looks like a slow march up a 60 mile grade.
The motion is slow, duty frequently, monotonous.
It is all too easy for the individual to worry about his own insignificance and to feel
that he has become lost in the crowd.
Now this is something that I hear a lot about on social media.
More people send me messages on this or Facebook messages, I guess, when they feel like
they're caught in a rut, you know, they're doing their job, they don't really like it.
What should I do?
And I think this next little section applies to that back to the book, what is the main
test of human character?
Probably it is this, that a man will know how to be patient in the midst of hard circumstance
and can continue to be personally effective while living through whatever discouragements
beset him and his companions.
Can you drive on?
That's what it's asking.
Those are the job that you don't like?
Good.
It's a little test.
Now, if you're in a situation that you don't like, you drive on in that situation and
also you figure out what your exit is going to be.
Because you don't want to go through life miserable.
You figure out, you start saving your money, you start getting on another education,
you figure out how to do the job, you get yourself promoted, you do what you've got to
do.
But don't let that monotonous job that you're not into that date, don't let that bird
you down.
Yeah.
You drive on in life.
You don't necessarily have to drive on and keep doing that job.
You drive on as opposed to, oh, start complaining or going to some thing where you get
self-destruct, ever you see some kind of escapees out later, something like that.
But I'll tell you, you drive on, you have other options, right?
You work those other options.
But whatever it is that your job is and you kick acid that job.
That's what you do.
The minute you start slack and you're going backwards, don't do it.
It's not going to be what benefit are you going to get from that.
You're going to get zero benefit.
You're going to work your eight hours a day.
You're going to make your $12 an hour.
Are you going to do it in a slack way?
Yeah.
Or are you going to do it in an awesome way?
Right.
You know, I'm going to do it in an awesome way.
Yeah.
And that's what's going to get you promoted.
That's what's going to get you.
That's what's going to get you taking care of.
In the long run.
If you, or you, you, like you say this a lot, where you, like you're going to get
out where you, like even if you're going to do something, even if you don't enjoy, you still
you do it just the best you can.
You said that like from the beginning.
And for someone like me when I look at it like that, of course it sounds like
good idea.
Do it that way.
But after you do it, you kind of think back.
And I've done both.
I've done it where I'm like, well, I hate doing this.
So I'm just going to basically go through the motions until it's finally done.
You know, and I can be relieved or whatever.
But when you think back of like, hey, remember when I was doing whatever it is that job or
whatever, when you look back, you kind of have this fulfillment that you did it the best
you get.
You never look back and be like, dang, I'm glad I've phoned it in.
You know, you're always, you're going even if you didn't like it.
Like you, you're always satisfied that that, yeah, I did it the best that I could.
So do it.
Yeah.
Do it the best you can.
Now, here's a couple of the lists in this book. Here's another one.
This is the one that's talking about the simple virtues that provide a firm foundation.
So here we go.
One, a man has honor.
If he holds himself to a course of conduct because of a conviction that it is in the general interest,
even though he is well aware that it may lead to inconvenience, personal loss, humiliation or
grave physical risk.
So when he says general interest, he's talking about like the team.
So you're going to hold that conviction, even if it's good for the team, you're going to hold that course.
Even if you're well aware that it may lead to inconvenience, personal loss, humiliation or grave physical risk.
Boom.
That's what honor is.
You know, here, honor laid out that well.
Very often.
He has veracity.
If having studied a question to the limit of his ability, he says and believes what he thinks to be true.
Even though it would be the path of least resistance to deceive others and himself.
So this is kind of in the same vein.
If you look at something and maybe you don't agree with it, but the easiest thing to do is just be agree with it.
No, you don't do that.
You step on saying, no, I don't agree with this.
Now we could go into detail on that.
In the time is when you, when you do want to maybe not be the most truthful person in the world.
For instance, we've talked about this before when your wife is making chicken and it's dry.
Right?
It might not be the best thing to tell her the amount of water that you're going to need to drink.
So, but in real things and important things, tell the truth.
Back to the book.
Number three, he has justice.
If he acknowledges the interests of all concerned in any particular transaction, rather than serving his own apparent.
And his own apparent interest.
Look out for others.
Number four, he has graciousness.
If he acts and speaks forthrightly, agrees warmly, disagree fairly and respectfully.
Participates enthusiastically.
Refrains from harboring grudges.
Takes his reverses in stride and does not complain or ask for help in the face of trifling.
Calamities.
Those are just solid.
I would say this though.
Sometimes you got to ask for help.
Right?
That's one thing that I wouldn't work with businesses.
There'll be somebody that's, you know, I'm the extreme ownership and I'm an own this.
And all of a sudden you realize, hey, you're own in that, but you're not going to be successful at it.
Because that's too much for you.
You need help.
You need to, you need to put your ego in check.
And you need to be able to raise your hand and say, look, I need some help on this.
I don't have this covered.
This is too much for me.
I want to expect in this.
Here's my hands in the air.
Let me, let me get some help.
Sometimes seems like it's not necessarily even ego.
It's more like, oh, I guess it in a way to ego, but it's more like, shoot.
I don't want to be the guy who has to be dependent on somebody or something like that.
Like, you know, which is what?
Extreme ownership.
Which is ego.
Actually, if you're the guy that doesn't want to be dependent on other people, that's probably
ego.
But you are, I think what you're trying to say is that I don't want to be the guy that has to ask for help.
I want to be the guy that carries my own load.
Like, you know what?
I'd see this on seal patrols.
A couple times in my career where guys were overloaded and they didn't want to ask for help.
Right.
I got this.
Because it's humiliating.
You know, hey, can you carry my ammunition or hey, can you carry my radio?
Yeah.
Can you carry my weapon?
That's, I've seen it happen.
I've carried some extra weapons from time to time.
It's a bummer, you know?
And you know what?
You take the weapon?
Hey, man, okay, get the water in you.
You know?
But that's what you're talking about.
People don't want to be that guy.
But what's going to be worse if they don't take a load off and they get heat casualty
and now they're down.
Well, now we're now I've got to carry him.
Not this is weapon.
Which is a bad thing.
We don't have him anymore.
Yeah.
And he can't take a fight.
He can't even do anything.
As opposed to the other guy who doesn't know the difference between needing help and
wanting help.
Yeah.
And he knows just like, well help me.
Because he don't want to work.
I had a guy who had we were on a long patrol.
This is back in the day, back in the day.
This is pre-war.
And my radio meant, because I was a radio man when I was in the city.
And now it wasn't a radio man.
I was an officer and we were on a long patrol.
And my radio man was going down.
Like he was, didn't have enough water.
He was dehydrated.
And so he was bummed.
He couldn't keep up with this anymore.
And I said, OK, let me get you radio.
So I'm taking a 20 pound radio off his back.
Put him in my back.
And I'm carrying it for a little bit, I don't know.
A half a day.
And then we get to a, like, a layup point.
So this is where we're going to first civilian.
This is where we're going to camp out for the night.
And when we get there, we get a resupply of water and, you know,
gate or gate or whatever.
So all of a sudden now everyone's rehydrated.
And while we're in there, we got to make a community
and we got to make a communications hit to, you know,
got to call headquarters and say, hey, this is our location.
So he comes and takes the radio out of my, out of my backpack.
You know, it comes over and hit the radio.
So I can make this communication.
I go, yeah, cool, open up my bag.
Give it to him.
And, you know, he makes the radio communications.
And I'm out doing, like, a reconnaissance of the area to find out what
wrote we're going to take.
Anyways, I thought, you know, not his rehydrated.
He's going to take that radio and, you know, we'll be back in the back of the game.
So I come back and when I get back, the radio was sitting on my rock set.
Oh, my god.
Oh, no.
But you know what I did?
Put it back in my rock set.
I'm scared of it.
Yeah, you just gotta do it.
But yeah, so you, you don't want to be that guy.
Yeah.
Once you get rehydrated, man, get your way back on.
That difference between needing help and a one.
Yeah.
And he did need help.
But once the gate of raids come in, you know, you're going to go.
Yeah.
You did take that radio back.
I was, I was a chuckling inside when I saw that radio been placed back on top of my
Ronin side, but just placed on the, yeah, you got it from here.
Yeah, you put it back in.
Thanks.
And we'll be all good here.
Awesome.
Good times and the teams.
And the last one here, he has integrity.
If his interest in the good of the service is at all times greater than
his personal pride.
And when he holds himself to the same line of duty when unobserved as he would follow
if all his superiors were present.
This is the classic.
What do you do when you're not people on a look at me?
Here's another point.
The cause of much of the friction in administrative machinery is that at all levels, there are individuals who insist on standing
in their own light.
Now, this is a term that I actually had to look up standing in your own light.
It means getting your own way.
It means you're preventing your, you're preventing your, you're preventing your own success.
And he uses the term of lunch in here, standing in your own light.
This is important.
They believe that there is some special magic.
Some quick springboard to success.
They mistakenly think that it can be won by bootlicking, apple polishing, yesing higher
authority, playing office politics, throwing weight around, ducking the issue, striving for cheap popularity,
courting publicity, or seeking any and all means of grabbing the spotlight.
So this is the guy.
Everybody that's listening to this podcast right now knows who I'm talking about.
That guy, that guy that's just always trying to kiss everyone's ass and make himself look good.
And that's, you know, that's a shortcut, right?
Marshall saying is a, is a shortcut or a springboard.
You think it's a quick springboard.
Back to the book, any one of this set of tricks may enable a man to carry the ball forward, a yard or two,
in some special situation.
But at least this comment can be made without qualification of the men who have risen to supreme heights in the fighting
establishment of the United States and have had their greatness proclaimed by their fellow
countrymen. There is not one career which provides any warrant for the conclusion that there is a special
shortcut known only to this smart operators.
Too enough, a few men have gained fairly high rank by dint of what late Mr. Justice Holmes called the
instinct for the jugular, a feeling of wind to jump and wear to press and how to slash in order to achieve
somewhat predatory personal ends.
That will occasionally happen in any walk-a life. And I say this all the time, I've said this on this podcast.
But if you got that guy that we're talking about, sometimes they're going to get a better recommendation.
You, but sometimes they're going to get, they're going to get that promotion that you were wanting and you,
you just, you just held the line and were a good person. That person took the credit for something and no one really
realized next thing, you know, they get the promotion.
But I agree with what's being said here, that does happen sometimes in every walk of life, but in the long run,
that person's going down.
That person's going down in the long run. And the more you kind of depend on that sort of thing,
the less likely for any kind of success. And you absolutely, yeah, yeah.
And he says here, but from Washington, Wayne and Jones down to Eisenhower, Van Degriff and
Nimitz, the best, the men best loved by the American people for their military successes were also the men with
greatness of soul.
During World War II, there were quite a few higher commanders relieved in our forces, because
it was judged for one reason or another that they had failed in battle. So relieved means you got fired.
Of the total number, there were a few who took a reduction in rank, went willingly to a lower post
in a fighting command. Other, no complaint kept their chins up, worked courageously and sympathetically with their commands,
and provided an example of manhood that all who saw them will never forget.
So if you get, I get asked this, I've got, I've got, been asked this a couple times. I got demoted.
Or sometimes not demoted, but I got passed over, you know, someone else got promoted instead of me, what should I do?
Get after it. That's what these guys did.
That's what these guys did. Hey, screwed up. You know what? Check.
All right, cool. Let's, let's, here's what I messed up. That was my fault. I'm ready to rock and roll. You put me down.
Put me in charge of less people. I got it. I'm going to do well.
Though their names need not be mentioned, they were imprinted with the real virtue of the services,
even more deeply than many of their colleagues who had no blemishes on their records.
Their character had met the ultimate test.
The men who had the privilege of working close to them realized this and the supply,
the supply, my effect of his personal influence helped strengthen the resolve of many others.
So it's actually inspirational to people around you when they see that.
And there's been many guys that I'm known that it bounced back for some kind of, from some kind of, you know, career problem.
They mess something up. They got, they got fired.
And they take it. They be humble about it. And they come back and turn it around.
The person that complains and thinks that they're a victim, not going to work out for them.
That's an, in the civilian sector and in the military sector.
Now,
Let's start talking a little bit about being a recruit.
And the kind of the mental training, the mindset training that happens as a recruit to the book,
his perseverance and the care of weapons,
in keeping his living quarters orderly,
and in doing his full share of work is best ensured,
not through fear of punishments, but by stimulating his belief that any other way of going is unworthy of a member of a fighting service.
Precision in personal habits, precision in drill and precision in daily living are the high road to that kind of discipline,
which best ensures cool and collected thought and unity of action on the field of battle.
I can tell you,
Yeah,
You know,
it's just, it's basically he's talking about the, the unmedicated daily discipline and all things.
That's what it is.
And that ensures cool and collected thought and unity of action on the field of battle.
Like I'm not going to say about that other than yes,
Amen.
Here's another little section.
When men are well led,
they become fully receptive to the whole body of ideas which their leaders see fit to put before them.
Let's think about that.
When men are well led,
they become fully receptive to the whole body of ideas which their leaders see fit to put before them.
So what we're talking about here is when somebody's a good leader,
the the troopers around them,
the people that are working for them,
they start to believe the whole body everything,
right?
They start to believe everything that you're saying.
And that's powerful.
That's obviously powerful.
Yeah, it kind of goes back to like what you're saying about like if you're,
if they fear your punishment,
that's how you lead you know,
I'm just,
and they fear the punishment.
So they're going to do enough to not get punished,
but they won't do anything that they don't have to.
Yeah.
So it's only what they have to do.
So you won't get people doing their best.
You know, I mean, so.
Yeah.
And that that punishment piece that I kind of breathed through is,
is not through fear of punishments,
but by stimulating is belief that any other way.
So that's 100% right.
And we just, you know, I say at all time,
if you,
if you're,
if you're doing what you told them to do just because they're afraid of you,
sure,
you can get,
that's going to work for a little while,
you know,
oh,
I'll fire you.
Okay.
What's that person doing when we get to him,
putting his,
putting his resume on monster.com,
looking for another job.
So that's not to get fired.
If you're not doing it,
but that's not to get fired is,
is.
Alright.
Going back to the book,
Vowage has been said before,
even so it can be said again.
It is paramount and overriding responsibility of every officer to take care of his men before,
caring for himself.
Yet many junior officers do not seem to understand that steadfast,
steadfast fidelity to it is required,
not lip service.
And of this,
as Admiral Mahan would say,
man would say,
comes much evil.
The loyalty of men simply cannot be commanded
when they become
in biddered by selfish action.
So a minute,
your troops see that you're being selfish,
or you're doing this for yourself.
That's the beginning of,
but what he says,
Admiral Mahan says much evil.
He says evil comes from that.
When you start acting selfishly as a leader,
evil comes from that.
If an officer is on a tour with an enlisted man,
he takes care of the man,
he takes care that the man is accommodated as to food,
shelter medical treatment,
or other prime needs before satisfying his own wants.
If that means that the last meal,
or the last bed is gone,
his duty is to get along the hard way,
boom.
Take care of your people.
Now, again, this is written in 1950,
but even in 1950,
you might think this is the hard post-war of the war.
Two, chapter eight is actually called
getting along with people.
Boom.
Now, here's a real,
some of this stuff is so simple.
So obvious.
It's so simple and so obvious that they had to write a book about it,
so that people could do it because we all failed to do it.
So here we go.
If you like people,
if you seek contact with them rather than hiding yourself in a corner,
if you study your fellow men sympathetically,
if you try consistently to contribute to something to this success and happiness,
or contribute something to their success and happiness,
if you are reasonably generous with your thoughts and your time,
if you have a partial reserve with everyone,
but a seeming reserve with no one.
If you work to be interesting rather than spend to be a good fellow,
you will get along with your sub-erears,
your sub-ordinates,
your orderly, your roommate,
and the human race.
That's it.
That's all you got.
If you want to get along with everybody,
now one of the ones that I,
you know,
these are all pretty obvious,
but one of the ones,
if you have a partial reserve with everyone,
but a seeming reserve with no one.
So what that means is you're not just flying off the handle.
You're just reserved a little bit.
You're just, you show restraint,
but the restraint doesn't come across as a loophonist,
right?
It's not so much,
you know,
if I come into a room,
and I'm going to show restraint,
so I'm not going to say hi to you,
I'm going to come across as a loof and you're not going to like me.
But if I,
but if I was a walkin' to go echo my brother, give me a hug.
Well, you're not going to like me either.
Well I,
well I,
well you're one of the few people.
Well that's the Hawaiian in you.
A lohospiro.
Let's hear it.
You know?
So,
so it's,
it's that measured reserve that measure restraint,
that balance is a little bit back out of me there.
So I gotta find the good,
good spot in the middle.
Again,
getting along with people,
back to the book,
scores of thousands, precepts, and platitudes have been written for the guidance of personal
conduct.
The odd part is that, despite all of this labor, most of the frictions in modern society
arise from the individuals feeling of inferiority.
His false pride, his vanity, his unwillingness to yield space to any other man.
Unwillingness to yield space to any of them.
And I get hit on this one a lot because, again, because of my personality can be a little
bit forceful.
People think I'm just no compromise.
My way or the highway.
And this is what they're talking about.
I'm not like that.
I'm open to suggestions.
I'm willing to say, you know what, that's a better idea.
Or you know what?
I like your idea.
Could we make this adjustment to it?
Or yes, I can change my idea to fit with what you're saying, because it makes sense.
People that don't do that have unwillingness to yield space to any other man.
And continuing on and his consequent urge to throw his own weight around.
Right?
These are just ways to not get along with people and speaking of ways to get not
get along with people.
Here's the 13 mistakes.
The 13 mistakes.
This is from the United States Coast Guard magazine.
13 pitfalls.
Here we go.
One to attempt to set up your own personal, to attempt to set up your own standard of
right and wrong.
To try to measure the enjoyment of others by your own, to expect uniformity of opinions in
the world, to fail to make allowance for inexperience.
It's a good one.
To endeavor to mold all dispositions alike, not to yield on an important trifles, same
thing we just heard.
The things that don't matter who cares, let the guys do what they're going to do on
that.
To look for perfection in our own actions.
To worry ourselves and others about what can't be remedied.
Why you worried about that can't change it?
Let's not worry about it.
Let's just move on.
Here's a big one, not to help everybody, wherever, however, whenever we can.
That's a big ask.
That's a big request.
Now, you know what I want you to do in your life?
Help everybody, however, wherever and whenever you can.
That's asking a lot.
That's a big one.
To consider impossible what we cannot ourselves perform.
I can't even do that.
To believe only what our finite minds can grasp.
Must say that one again, to believe only what our finite minds can grasp.
That's humility.
To recognize that you don't understand everything in the world.
I don't understand everything in the world.
It's okay.
There's things beyond my comprehension.
That's okay.
You got to admit to that.
You got to make allowances for the weaknesses of others.
To estimate by some outside quality when it is that within, which makes the man.
So, very simple.
Interesting how you can make allowances for our according to the 13 things.
You can make allowances for inexperience.
But not the weakness of others.
No, it says not to make.
This would be a mistake.
It would be a mistake not to make allowances for the weaknesses of others.
Also, he said, okay, next to like.
You got to just say, this guy's, you know, I got to make allowances.
Flex a little bit.
He's got to fight off the handle.
Back to the book.
I used to say that when any officer has the inexcusable fault that he takes snap judgment
on his own men, he will not be any different in his relations with all other people.
And we'll stand in his own light for the duration of his career again.
There's that term.
If you're making snap judgments of people, you're not going to do them justice.
And that's something that I always very careful about because I've talked about it before
in the SEAL teams.
Your reputation is very, very important.
And everybody that's done something stupid in the SEAL teams, every single person knows it.
I mean, at a high level of stupidity, if you do something really stupid, everybody knows
about it.
And then minor stupid things, a lot of people will know about it.
And so you develop a reputation over time.
And it's very easy to fall in that category of all iron disguise, you know, kind of a
turd or whatever, and not give them a chance.
But I always, I always try to give people a chance and say, okay, let me see what this
guy's really like.
And I guess I would take a little personal challenge if it was a guy that was going
to be working for me.
Let's see if I can make this guy rock and roll.
You know, let me see if I can make this guy into a solid seal.
Can't always pull it off.
But sometimes you can't just need that second chance.
Some people go too far with the mistakes that they made, don't they don't get a second
chance?
Okay, we've talked about this before.
Let's talk about it again.
Here we go.
The man who will not listen never develops whits enough to distinguish between a bore and
a sage and therefore cannot pick the best company.
The vacant stare, the drifting of eyes from the speaker to a window or a picture or a passing
blonde, though greatly tempting in the midst of long discourse are taken only as signs of
inattention.
Many young officer called to the carpet for some trivial business as managed to square
himself with his commander just by looking straight and talking straight in the few moments
that decided his future.
So I guess this might be something that didn't make the politically correct version.
If your eyes are wandering on a passing blonde, why do I have this conversation?
So that might be one of those things where they changed that for the 2007 edition.
Like what?
Like that's show, show vines.
It's a good show vines, stick.
It's a blonde, it didn't say girl.
Okay, well maybe good point, maybe it's like racial.
Anti brown hair to people.
Yeah, yeah.
Too bad.
And this is important, though.
You go into talking to your in trouble.
You get there, look straight and talk straight for a few minutes with the boss.
Hey, this boss is what happened.
This is what I did, this is mistakes I made.
That's got infinitely better chance of you recovering from that situation as when you
go in there.
Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go.
Don't be that guy.
Elsewhere in the book, a great deal has been said about the importance of the voice and
of developing ones, powers of conversation.
Not a great deal needs to be added there, but there's no excuse for the officer who talks
so that others must strain to hear what he is saying.
Unless he is suffering from Laryn Jydus, it is simple enough to keep the chin up and let
the words roll out.
Many persons have the bad habit of letting the voice drop at the end of a sentence.
The effect on the other party is like watching a man run away from a fight.
Notice I said fight really loud because I didn't want to be the guy that was dropping
off on the end of a sentence.
Right.
What about speaking and how you speak and speaking clearly and not mumbling and not fading
off on the end of your words?
This thing is a gold-minded book actually.
This should be issued to 13 year olds nationwide in my opinion.
Maybe we could start a campaign to make that happen.
Good.
Back to the book.
Carefulness in the little things count much.
And develop an aversion to the individual who cannot remember their names.
Their titles or their stations.
But they will warm to the person who remembers and they will overlook most of his other
shortcomings.
Likewise, they are won by any words of appreciation or of interest in what they're doing.
So again, how we get along with other people?
Remember their name.
I know about it and that's hard.
You know, that's hard.
There's tricks for that.
Yeah.
See, you need tricks for it even.
I mean, I'm nothing everyone needs, but I'm just saying it.
It's understood that that's hard.
And there's tricks out there because people know that that can be hard.
And they also know that it's impactful.
Yeah.
It's impactful.
Hammer.
But you forget a guy's name literally two seconds after each of us.
Unless you make it a point to command yourself to remember it.
Right.
That's tricky.
Yeah.
It's tricky.
I knew a guy that was a really good leader.
And he would go into a room of 25 people.
And he would go over the top.
And when he got done, he would say, I know all your names now.
Yeah.
You go name every single one of them.
Yeah, Henry does that sometimes.
It's pretty interesting.
Yeah.
That's legit.
I bet Henry's got some little trick to do it.
Yeah.
You remember, you know, your name is Echo.
Cool.
I look at you and I see big E on your face.
Right.
Now I'm amazing.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
I want to remember one guy.
I'm going to make it a point to remember this guy's name.
He'll be like, hey, my name's John.
You'd be like, hey, Josh, but you'll forget it quick sometimes.
It's weird, man.
Not good.
Got to remember those names.
Got to lock them in.
I think if you take a certain amount of pride in doing that,
I think that helps a lot.
Step number one.
Yeah.
Take pride in your job.
Okay.
I'm going to try that.
Now this is interesting.
A little dig here.
It's actually kind of funny.
He's basically going back and saying that all this information about getting along
with other people.
He's saying he's kind of recapping the whole thing to close it out.
Back to the book.
It isn't lengthy advice which is needed on this subject.
Since a man commissioned is considered to have graduated from at least the kindergarten
of good manners.
What counts is simply caring about it and not to be ingratiating to other people,
but for the sake of one's own dignity and self-respect.
One of the oracles on winning friends and influencing people have said it in those
few words.
And if they had, there would have been no books to sell.
So there's a little shot, little shot on winning friends and influencing people.
Wait, when was that one right then?
Oh, that was written.
I don't know where the date dates, but that's written a long time ago.
Dang.
Yeah.
Some of you have time to read that.
No, that's turn of the century.
Fold school.
Yeah.
Old school.
Talking about, no, we're going to leader leaders and leadership.
And what type of men are leaders?
Those who come forward to fill these same places and to command them with equal or greater
authority and competence will not be plastered saints.
So if you remember in the beginning, he goes on this thing about how you're not going
to swear and you're going to be not going to talk about women.
He's given some leeway now to that.
Saying they're not going to be plastered saints laden with all human virtue, spotless and
character and fit to be anointed with a Superman legend by some future person weems.
They will be men with a human quality and a strong belief in the United States and the goodness
of a free society.
They will have some of the average man's faults and maybe a few of his vices.
But certainly they will possess the qualities of courage, creative intelligence and physical
fitness in more than average measure.
So again, it's not quite as strict as he laid out in the beginning.
Yeah, because it's like, remember I'm trying, you watch training day?
Remember that Denzel and I saw a part of it.
Yeah, so there's a little concept is in there where he said, you got to have a
little dirt on you so they can trust you.
Okay.
So basically, if you speak clean, well, yeah, there's all kinds of heroes that are not
squeaky clean.
Well, in all kinds of leaders that Denzel, I would say there's more heroes that aren't
Yeah, there are real purpose plenty of leaders that aren't squeaky clean and they're
great leaders.
Yeah.
And that's what they're given that up in this book.
It's saying look, not going to be a plaster saint.
It'll be a person.
Gonna have faults.
But if we can say, gonna have vices, gonna have dirt.
Yeah.
For the record, the training day guys were all cropped.
That's a little bit of an experience.
Yeah.
They had a little too much dirt.
Yeah, exactly.
All right, so now we're talking about Grant, General Grant, Civil War General, and
beset by human failings.
He could not look impressive.
Average though he wasn't many things, there was nothing average about the strong
way in which he took hold, applying massive common sense to the complex problems of the
field.
That is why he is worth close regard.
His virtues as a military leader were of the simpler sort, which plain men may understand
and hope to emulate.
He was direct in manner.
He never intrigued.
His speech was homely.
He was approachable.
His mind never deviated from the object.
Though a stubborn man, he was always willing to listen to his subordinates.
And I love this one right here.
He never adhered to a plan, obsnitely.
But nothing could induce him to forsake the idea behind the plan.
So look, I'm not going to say, here's my idea.
And I'm going to hold that idea because it's good.
But the plan that's going to get us there, I'm not going to have to worry about that.
I'm not going to hold onto that.
And let it drag me into the ground.
Back to the book in the military services, though there are niches for the pad down.
Character is at all times at least as vital as intellect.
So padant is like overly educated types in area where you get padented, right?
And the main rewards go to him who can make other men feel toughened as well as elevated.
Here's some trade tier, quiet resolution.
The hardyhood to take risks.
The will to take full responsibility for decisions.
The readiness to share its rewards with subordinates.
This is obviously extreme ownership and part of extreme ownership is when you something
goes well, you don't own that part.
You give that away.
And the key thing is to take the blame when things go adversely boom.
The nerve to survive storm and disappointment and to face towards each new day with the
score sheet wiped clean.
Neither dwelling on one successes nor accepting discouragement from one's failures.
Like I said, this book should be issued to 13 year olds.
Yeah, that was a really good book.
I figured you dig this one.
I used a lot of highlight around this one.
I've had this book for a long time.
I couldn't, it's funny.
When I read it this time, I hadn't read it in so long that it was almost like I was reading
it again.
I pretty much it forgot most of it.
And a lot of it, I subconsciously, we've been probably part of my game for a long time.
I can't tell, though.
I can't tell what I just, what I buried and what was a seed that grew.
Probably there's some ideas in here that were seeds of my thought.
Yeah, I would imagine so that that's not the kind of book where it's like, oh yeah,
let me memorize all this.
It's more like, oh, shoot, I got it.
I got it kind of in Jess.
Yes, and here's the straight-up truth.
When somebody gave me this book, I probably read 10 pages of it and said, oh, this is pretty
cool.
Put it in my locker and then went out and worked out and forgot about it for the next 15
years.
So it's not, I didn't, you know, this current jacco will call it where I kind of overlay
and bring in, it's like a jiu-jitsu when you're going to jiu-jitsu.
If you're a brown belt, I'm purple, the black belt and jiu-jitsu.
Somebody can show you a move and you can assimilate it really quickly and you go, oh yeah,
I need to do this.
Well, I was a white belt before in this stuff.
So when I'd read it, it kind of made sense, but it was, it was didn't make as much
sense as that when I read this stuff now, it's like I totally understand it at a deeper
level.
And so it's way more impactful for me.
People always ask me about this one as well, back to the book, to speak of the importance
of a sense of humor would be unavailing.
If it were not that what cramped so many men isn't that they are by nature humorless,
but that they are hesitant to exercise what humor they possess.
Within the military profession, it is as unwise to let the muscles go soft and to spare
the mind, the strain of original thinking.
Great humor has always been in the military tradition.
People ask, for some reason people ask me about humor a lot.
It's not good for an author, or it's not good for a leader to tell to.
And yes, it is.
And that's why I always, whenever there's something funny in the war books that we read,
I always try and capture that.
So then people realize that these guys are out there and they keep that sense of humor going
all the time.
Yeah.
And I guess that doesn't really necessarily mean.
Telling jokes all the time.
No, just like levity.
Yeah, I feel that's funny.
I'm going to, you know.
Yeah, yeah, just having a good time making light of these miserable situations for sure.
Hmm.
Said Admiral, this is going into the next chapter, which is called main springs of leadership.
Said Admiral, forest, p-shermon, chief of naval operations.
I concur that we can take average good men.
And by proper training, developing them the essential initiative, constant confidence,
and magnetism, which are necessary in leadership.
I believe that these qualities are present in the average man to a degree that he can be
made a good leader if his native qualities are properly developed.
Whether or not he becomes a great leader depends upon whether or not he possesses that extra
initiative, magnetism, moral courage and force, which makes the difference between the average
man and the above average man.
The general CBKates, common down to the Marine Corps, leadership is intangible, hard to
measure and difficult to describe.
Its qualities would seem to stem from many factors, but certainly they must include a measure
of inherent ability to control and direct.
Self-confidence based on expert knowledge, initiative, loyalty, pride, and sense of responsibility.
Inherinability obviously cannot be instilled, but that which is latent or dormant can be
developed.
Other ingredients can be acquired.
They are not easily taught or easily learned, but leaders can be and can be and are made.
The average good man in our service is and must be considered a potential leader.
So there you go to that question.
It's the same answer that I give, basically all the time when people ask me if leaders
are born or made, there's the answer from these two guys they agree with me or I'll
say I agree with them since they're senior to me.
But look, you got certain traits.
You can take, I always say look, you can take someone that's an okay leader and make
them a better leader.
You can take a good leader and make them an outstanding leader and outstanding leader.
You can make them epic leader because you can improve these things.
You can learn about these things.
The one person that you can't make any better is the person that's not humble.
They're not going to get any better because they can't be coached because standing in his
own light, because he's standing in his own light.
Maybe we'll bring that back in and bring that back back to the book and before I go
back to the book.
This is another thing I get asked about a lot is people ask me because they know that
I work a lot.
They know that I get after it.
Right?
And they ask me about, you know, how do you, how do you do with your family?
You got a family because I got four children and a wife and a goldfish.
Okay.
So, I sickle.
That's the name.
Right?
So, I got to give, you know, to the family, right?
So people say, how do you, how do you balance?
So here we go.
Back to the book.
Personal advancement within any worthwhile system requires some sacrifice of leisure and more
careful attention to the better organization of ones working routine.
But that does not entail heroic self-sacrifice or forfeiting of any of life's truly enduring
rewards.
It means putting the completion of work ahead of golf.
Yeah.
So, so often you see people that you're just, I'm not going to work my way.
Myself to death.
Okay.
Are you going to play golf to death?
Because that's apparently what you're trying to do here.
Right?
But yeah, you got to find balance.
You got to find balance, especially when he's talking about life's true and enduring rewards.
That's talking about your family and the things that you achieve outside of the work world.
Abbey dimnet.
Abbey dimnet was a priest, a priest in wrote a book called The Art of Thinking.
And he's quoted here in this book.
He said, concentration is supposed to be exceptional only because people do not try and
in this as so many things starve within an inch of plenty.
You're almost there.
Almost there.
Almost got plenty, but you're starting to death.
Right there.
We're in an inch.
Why?
Because you failed to concentrate.
You failed to focus.
And that's what happens.
Oh, and well, this is just awesome.
Here we go.
There is, of course, that commonest of excuses for rejecting the difficult and taking life
easy.
I haven't time.
But for the man who keeps his mind on the object, there is always time.
Figure it out.
About us in the service as daily, we see busy men who somehow manage to find time for whatever
is worth doing.
While at the adjoining desks, our others with abundant leisure who can't find time for
anything.
And something important requires doing is usually the busy man who gets the call.
Time got time for that, huh?
There's always time.
Yeah.
Always time.
And how can you ever have time if you don't take time?
That sounds cool, but I don't know what it means.
Expand.
Oh, who has time?
Ah, but how can you ever have time if you don't take time?
Oh, so you're going to take out.
Okay.
So, is that where it's from?
The mate, like part two or something like that.
Did some, there was a part two to that movie?
I think there was like a part three too.
Anyway, that was a good one.
It's true though.
You know how like, guys will be like, hey, I want to get in like really good shape or something
like this.
I want to get like real strong or whatever.
I was like, okay.
You have to work out like this.
I don't have like time to both, then you don't have time then.
You then you can't get in shape.
It's like saying I don't have the inclination.
It's more or less the same thing.
I don't have the time.
Yeah, I was with one of my buddies and we were counseling someone and my buddy said,
you don't care about this.
Then the guy says, no, no, I do care.
And he said, well, why can't you show up on time?
If you cared, you would show up on time.
And K's closed.
You're fired.
That was that.
I was like, well, you know what?
Let's just stop talking because we're done.
We're done.
That's 100% accurate.
So old true.
So, as you probably know, I come from a long line of lately.
Yes, we've discussed that before.
So I kind of analyzed it.
Where there was a time where I felt like,
I just, I don't know.
I just can't be on.
It's like, it's like almost like this like a mentor physical black almost.
That's what I felt like.
But then.
Okay.
Really analyzed.
When you really realized that you were just lazy.
No, I'm not lazy.
It wasn't important.
Just like what you're saying.
And this is what, so let's say work for example.
I was late literally more times than I was on time.
At work.
I was so many times.
Well, I did a good enough job.
I would have fired you.
And then rehired you so I could fire you.
You started to take pleasure.
You probably would have been a good idea.
Nonetheless.
So when I analyzed it, I was like,
Why am I late?
Why don't I get prepared the night before?
Whatever it takes to be on time every single time.
And just like, it's not important.
Like, why would I spend my off work time preparing to go be at work?
Yeah.
I should be resting or that's my off time watching a little bit more television.
TV or yeah, whatever.
Not working.
I can squeeze in another episode of this program.
Exactly right.
Not working.
Why should I spend off work time doing work stuff?
Like, I'm not getting paid or kind of thing.
You know, it's not important.
And that's going back to what this whole book starting off with the attitude of trying to do good job all the time.
And actually somebody brought that up.
It's somebody sent me a direct message.
And this was a great point that I didn't think about.
We got asked another question on the podcast about,
Hey, if you're getting told to go to a meeting that you're not going to get paid for.
Remember that conversation?
This guy wrote me and said, Hey, you know, legally that that's illegal.
If you're on an hourly wage, so that's a great point that I didn't think of it from a HR perspective.
But that's a good point. Now you got people that you're breaking a law.
So I kind of assume that these guys were not being specifically compensated,
but that they were maybe salary employees that they were.
But I could be wrong.
And if those people are hourly, now you got to go to the boss and say, Hey, boss,
I want to get this meeting going, but what you're doing to us and what you're doing to these guys is illegal.
Yeah.
You know, maybe the manager a lot of times managers are salaryed and the workers are hourly.
So he would need to go look, I'll come to the meeting because I'm on salary. It's all good with me.
I'm here to win.
But the guys, I can't bring him in here unless you want to be looking at a,
at a labor lawsuit, you in the game for that boss, because I'm not.
That's going to cost our company money. It's going to make us look bad.
Let's, let's do this another way.
Yeah.
Boom.
But that is a different element to the whole, like the point as far as what you're talking.
We're what you're talking about, like it's something like not important versus if you're in person.
Like it doesn't necessarily go for just work that's why.
It goes for anything, like if you're late to anything, like if you, if you, like this podcast,
I'm rolling in late every single time.
It's obviously because being on time is not important and that leads into this podcast.
And one way or another, what we're about to do isn't important enough.
That's why you're on time because it is important to you.
There you go.
Boom.
Because it's important to me to you.
And I will spend off my quote and quote free time doing stuff to prepare for, you know, the on time.
It's stuff.
We're got it's good.
And you seem to say otherwise you'd be getting fired.
I'm just using this as a hype.
Give me another echo Charles.
You're going to throw the right one.
You don't even know the difference.
Yeah.
Good.
Although he probably genetically has the same problem.
Yeah.
I told you we come from a long line.
Now he knows the importance of, you know.
And it's a, and it's a sign of disrespect, too, by the way.
Yes.
It's like saying not only do I not think what we're, what we've planned to do or agreed to do.
And all this time stuff.
Not only do I not think that's important.
I don't respect how much you think it's important.
That's what we respect my time.
Nope.
Not at all.
The on time.
Well.
And make time.
Take time.
If, yeah, if you want to have time, you got to take care.
Yeah.
And that's what's so like about this guy's actually making fun of people that say I haven't got time.
Because for the man who keeps his mind on the object there is always time.
Next section says, much is conveyed in, in few words, in Army field forces brief on practical
concepts of leadership.
It is stressed therein that the preeminent quality, which all great commanders have owned
common is a posiveness of manner and viewpoint.
The power to concentrate on means to a given end to the exclusion of exaggerated fears of the
obstacles which lie afroarch the course.
Every word of that should be underscored.
And above all, what it says about the need for affirmative thinking and concentrating on how things
can be done.
This is the part.
You always hear about this.
You always hear about this person.
The person that says, when you go to them and say, hey, can we do this?
They're always looking for a way to say no.
A reason why something can happen instead of, no, we can do that.
We can make that happen.
We can figure out a way.
That's what we're looking for.
Next section.
Those in this section is actually the same topic of what this podcast is the topic of and
that is human nature.
Those who had the chance to study American men under the terrible rigor of Japanese and
prison during World War II gave an analysis that in certain of the prisoners, character
insanity with it, held fast against every circumstance.
In others, some of whom had been well educated and came from gentle homes, the brute instinct
was as uppermost as in an east African cannibal.
And when they say brute instinct, that's the person that just loses and goes to the animal
instincts.
Some such crucibles as these even more than from the remittance stresses of combat and war
comes the clearest light on the inner nature of man in so far as it needs to be understood
by the officer who may someday lead a force into battle.
Human nature.
One of the things that he says about human nature in here is good will and weakness, maybe
combined in one man, bad will and strength in another.
High moral leading can lift the first man to excel himself.
It will not reform the other.
But there is no other sensible rule, then that all men will be approached with trust and
treated his trust trustworthy until proved otherwise beyond reasonable doubt.
So he's thrown out the trust.
He's a little bit of an option.
I've talked about it.
I actually, I should take that back.
Remember one time on the podcast, I said, look, I don't have a high expectation of people
when I meet him.
And I hold that true to this day.
But I don't straight up not trust them as a human.
Yeah.
There's a difference there.
I think there's a difference.
I think I feel that way.
There is a, yeah, and it's not an obvious difference, but it's like the difference between
I don't have an high expectation of somebody.
And versus I have a low expectation of person.
Got it.
Somebody.
So it does sound the same.
It sounds the same.
It's not an expectation than what kind of expectation do you have?
No.
Maybe just a neutral one.
Right.
Like I'm not going to put any expectations.
I'm not expecting you to do a bunch of hero, I don't have any expectations.
Just neutral.
I come in with a neutral attitude on that one.
Yeah.
Back to the book, Men do not achieve a great solidarity or preserve it simply by being
together.
Their mutual bonds are forged only by doing together, that which they have been convinced
is constructive.
The absence of a common purpose is the chief source of unhappiness in any collection
of individuals.
Talking it and the common standard of justice, which is one of its chief agents, men become
more and more separate units, each fighting for his own rights.
This is why you got to have that common purpose.
This is why that commander's intent is so important.
This is why it's important that everyone understands why they're doing what they're doing.
They have to understand the strategic goal that you're trying to meet as a company, as
a business, as a team, as a platoon.
And that's a person and like a lot of people, they go into straight up depression.
Because I mean, if they don't see the big goal, if they don't see a purpose in their
life, that is true.
Back to the book, whatever his rank, it is impossible for any man to lead if he is himself
running behind.
This bespeaks the need of constant study, the constant use of one's personal powers and
the exercise of the imagination.
As men advance, that which was good soon ceases to be good simply because something
better is possible.
You got to evolve.
You got to continue to evolve, you got to continue to improve yourself.
History confirms, and a study of the workings of the human mind supports one proposition
which many of the great captains of war have accepted as a truism.
There are no bad troops.
There are only bad leaders.
Yeah.
Interesting.
It's here Napoleon said, Napoleon said there's no bad kernels, only bad regiments.
Hackworth said the same thing.
No bad team.
I think he said no bad troops, only bad officers in the book that Laefan, I wrote, no bad
teams, only bad leaders.
So very common and very true stands the test of time.
You know, there's a reason why Napoleon fought that.
There's a reason why SLA Marshall said that.
There's a reason why Hackworth said that.
There's a reason why Laefan, I put that in the book.
Because that is true.
In the minute you, if you're in a leadership position, the minute that you accept that fact
is the minute you step forward as becoming a better leader.
Because as soon as you're blaming it on other people, you're just not going to make
it bad.
Oh my team sucks.
You suck.
Right.
So it's lit.
I don't know if you call this irony or what, but no bad team is only bad leaders.
So if you're like, wait, that's not true.
Oh, guess what?
You're bad leader.
Yeah.
It's a good ticket catch 22.
Yeah, yeah.
What's good for the goose is good for the, again, actually, I don't think that's it.
Alright, this is awesome.
Here we go, back to the book.
And this, actually, this section here has gone to group nature.
So you've gone from human nature to group nature.
Back to the book, among the commonest of experiences in war is to witness troops doing
nothing or worse doing the wrong thing without one commanding voice being raised to give
them direction.
Such circumstance any man who has the nerve and presence to step forward and give them an
intelligent order in a manner indicating that he expects to be obeyed will be accepted
as a leader and will be given their support.
Did you hear that?
That's all it is.
Who's going to step up?
Who's going to have the nerve and the presence to step up and give an intelligent
order that you believe in and that you believe will be followed on?
I did you expect to be obeyed, you'll be obeyed.
So again, I hear all these people say, well, you know, the senior position, therefore
I can't do anything wrong.
Actually, you can.
Step up and lead.
Back to the book for this reason, under the conditions of modern battle, the coherence of any
military body comes not only of men being articulate all down the line, but of building
up the dynamic power in each individual.
It is a thoroughly sound exercise in any unit to give every man a chance to take charge
and give orders in drill or other limited exercises once he has learned what the orders
mean.
By the same token, it is good practice for the junior leader to displace a file.
That means just one of the guys to displace a file in a training exercise and become
commanded for a time to sharpen his own perspective.
So it's good for the junior guys to step up into leadership positions and lead.
It's good for the leaders to go and be one of the boys in the cartoon.
I got really lucky because I was a prior, I'm a prior and listed guy, I'm a mustang
officer.
So I spent my first eight years in the suit teams as a guy in the, I was one of the
files.
So I knew what it was like when a leader didn't tell you what was going on, I knew
what it was like when you had a good leader.
So when I stepped up into those leadership positions, I knew at least what not to do.
And I knew what I would try and do to be a good leader.
It's like the curse of knowledge.
Like you don't curse the knowledge just when you can't see it from some inexperienced
person's point of view.
And so you don't really have that.
Because you've been the inexperienced.
You can just draw on those memories.
You know, I have that perspective that full I know what is nice to do.
I don't want to worst things in your at the end of a 16 man seal, put you in patrolling
through the night and you just have no idea where you are.
You have no idea how far the target is away.
You have no idea when you're going to stop.
You have no idea of anything.
You're just rocking like a miserable boots, boots, boots.
That's what you're getting the zone of.
It's just the worst.
So when I was a platoon commander, I was a squad leader.
But I tried with everything I had to make sure everyone knew what's going on all the time.
Because I never wanted my guys to be thinking, what is happening?
What are we doing?
Yeah, that's good.
Progress comes of making the most of our strengths rather than looking for ways to repair
weaknesses.
This is true in things both large and small.
The platoon leader who permits himself to be be deviled by the file who won't or can't
keep step cannot do justice to the ambitions of the 10 strongest men beneath him.
Upon whom the life of the formation would depend common emergency.
To nourish and encourage the top rather than to concentrate effort and exhaust nerves and
trying to correct a few least likely prospects is the healthy way of growth within military
organization.
Take care of your top people, put your photo, focus and energy them.
And I was going to give some time to the guys that are struggling, trying to help them
out.
But let's not focus on them.
They're not going to make a break you.
So it's leaders that you want to develop.
You got a good seed that's starting to grow.
Water that seed.
Don't worry about that thing over there in the corner.
That's not doing anything.
It is a good, this is classic.
It is a sign of a good level of discipline in command when orders are given and faithfully
carried out.
But it is a sign of a vastly superior condition when the men are prepared to demand those
orders which they know the situation requires if it is to be helped.
No competent subordinate sits around waiting for someone else to give impulse to movement
if he senses if his senses tell him that things are going to pot.
Either suggest a course of action to his superior or ask authority to execute it on his
own or in the more desperate circumstances of the battlefield gives orders on his own initiative.
Descentualized command.
Everybody's a leader.
Everybody steps up and makes things happen.
Back to the book, General Dwight D. Eisenhower was thinking on these things when he said
during World War II.
There is among the massive individuals who carry rifles in war, a great amount of ingenuity
and efficiency.
If men can talk naturally to their officers, the product of their resourcefulness becomes
available to all.
So as long as you can, as long as you're guys feel comfortable talking to you, you're
going to have access to all their ideas and all their ingenuity back to the book, but
the art of open communication requires both receiving and ending and the besetting
problems to get officers to talk naturally to men.
Develop the relationships with the troops is what you got to do.
Another section here at all training, all training at all levels has a dual object to
develop us all as leaders of men and as followers of leaders.
dichotomy.
Got to be a leader.
Got to be a follower.
It's like your Twitter thing.
You're Twitter by a leader follower.
Oh, beaker listener.
Let it dichotomy.
Right, or reader?
Right, or reader, yeah.
Exactly.
That is, that is, there's a dichotomy there.
To the book, the paralysis which comes of fear can be lifted only through the resumption
of action, which will again give individuals the feeling of organization.
So this is interesting.
We remember that Joe Owen, when he was in Korea, in the coldest war, in colder than hell,
he's freezing.
And there's shooting starts.
And he's got his own procedure of how he's going to overcome the fear.
He's going to do, he's going to take action.
And it's something that I've said on here a bunch of times here.
You're afraid of something?
Take action.
Step into it.
So what this is saying is the same thing, but not on an individual level, but on a group
level.
Because we're talking about group nature here.
And it's the same thing as you do with an individual.
You do it the group.
So listen to this again.
The paralysis, which comes of fear, can be lifted only through the resumption of action, which
will again give the individuals feeling of organization.
This does not mean ordering a bayonet charge or firing a volley at such and such a clock.
It may mean only padding one man on the back, talking it up to a couple of others, sending
someone out to find a flank or turning one's self to dig in, while passing the word
to others to do likewise.
This is action in the realist sense of the term.
Re-invigorating men toward the faking of many small actions develops the possibility
of large and decisive action.
The unit must first find itself before doing an effective job of finding the enemy out
of those acts, which are incidental to the establishing of an order, the leader reaffirms
his own power of decision.
So those are beautiful advice.
Just like you do with yourself, you're afraid of something, take action, step into it.
You got your group and everyone started to get scared and overwhelmed.
Let's take some action.
Hey guys, dig in.
Hey guys, online.
Whatever that order is going to be, that's that for it may not solve the problem, but it
regains your stability as a team.
Now you can move forward.
This next section is subtitled environment.
Back to the book, it is only to the man who is burned with unnecessary and exaggerated
fear, fears, and who mistakes for fancy security, the privilege of sitting quietly in one
place that the uprooting which comes with war is demoralizing.
The natural officer sees it as an hour of opportunity.
And though he may not like anything else about war, he at least relishes the strong feeling
of personal contention which always develop develops when there are many openings inviting
many men.
As a world war to commander expressed it, during war, the ball is always kicking around
loose in the middle of the field and any man who has the will may pick it up and run
with it.
That's true by life so many opportunities out there who's going to pick it up and run
with it becomes the question.
Now we get into touching back a little bit onto some discipline.
Back to the book, when men are given absolute freedom, with no compulsion upon them but
to eat and sleep as with a group of South Sea savages, there can be no strong uniting
bond between them.
Absolute freedom doesn't get you what you want.
There's got to be a counter to that and that counter is discipline.
I suppose that's another politically incorrect thing that we've run into the book a couple
times the South Sea savages.
Who's the technically probably natives from the South Sea?
Oh, yes.
In fact, that is who it is.
Okay, all right, there you go.
No offense intended.
Back to the book, in officership there is simply no substitute for personal reconnaissance.
Do or any other technique that in the long run will have half its value.
So when he's talking about personal reconnaissance here, he's not talking about going to
reconniscence of an enemy position.
He's talking about going down and reconnaissance doing reconnaissance within your own element,
talking to your people.
What he's talking about here.
He's talking about that habit of personal reconnaissance.
Once formed, the habit of getting down to the roots of organization, of seeing with
one's own eyes what is taking place, of measuring it against one's own scale of values,
of ordering such changes as our needed and of following through to make certain that
the changes are made becomes the main spring of all efficient command action.
In battle, there is no other way to be sure.
In training, there is no better way to move towards self assurance.
So get down there, get in the weed, sometimes see what's going on in the front lines, talk
to your people.
This section talks about the mission.
When an order is given, what are the responsibilities of the man who receives it?
In sequence, these, to be certain that he understands what is required, to examine and
organize his resources as promptly as possible, to inform his subordinates upon these points,
to execute the order without waste of time or means, to call for support if events prove
that his means are inadequate, to fill up the spaces in the orders if there are developments
which had not been anticipated.
When the detail is complete, to prepare to go on to something else.
Straight forward, Lieutenant General Sir Frederick Morgan, who planned the invasion of Normandy,
put the matter this way, when setting out on any enterprise.
It is well, it is as well to ask oneself three questions.
To whom is one responsible?
For what precisely is one responsible, what are the means that disposable at disposal
for discharging this responsibility?
Nothing so warms the heart of a superior.
As that, on giving an order, he sees his subordinates salute and say, yes, sir, then about
face and proceed to carry it out to the hilt without faltering or looking back.
This is the kind of a man that a commander will choose to have with him every time and that
he will recommend for first advancement.
On the other hand, clarification of the object is not only a right but a duty and it cuts
both ways.
So if you don't understand, you have the duty to ask for clarification.
Orders are not always clear and no superior is on firm ground when he is inpatient of questions
which are to the point or resentful of the man who asks him.
I say this all the time.
If your subordinates say, why are we doing this and you get angry, you're wrong.
You should be happy that your subordinates ask him why.
But it is natural that he will be doubtful of the man who's words show either that he
hasn't heard or is concerned mainly with the relevancies.
The cultivation of the habit of careful, concentrated listening and of collected thought
and reading into any problem is principle, portal to successful officership.
From the pen of general, Eisenhower comes these words.
The commander's success will be measured more by his ability to lead than by his adherence
to fixed notions.
Thus, in the conduct of operations not less than in the execution of orders, it is necessary
that the mind remain plastic and impressionable.
Again, the idea of the military man is this person that can't change and is close-minded.
It's wrong.
Now there are military leaders like that.
And it's unfortunate.
They're not good.
You got to have the flexible mind.
You got to have the plastic mind.
Obedience is not the product of fear, but of understanding and understanding is based
on knowledge.
So you got to make sure that your troops understand what's going on.
So they know what's going on.
So they can obey properly, not out of fear.
To grasp the spirit of orders is not less important than to accept them cheerfully and
keep faith with the contract.
But the letter of an instruction does not relieve him who receives it from the obligation
to exercise common sense.
You get told to do something you still got to do.
You still got to hold common sense.
In the Carolina Manuvers of 1941, a soldier stood at a road intersection for three days
and nights directing civilian traffic simply because the man who put him there had
forgotten all about it.
Though he was praised at the time, he was hardly a shining example of the hold up to
the troops moving into the next chapter, which the name of the chapter is discipline.
This is, you're going to recognize this one.
Once a man condones remisses his own belief in discipline begins to wither.
The officer who tolerate slackness in the dress of his men soon ceases to tend his own
appearance.
And if he is not called to account, his sloppy habits will shortly begin to inflict
his superior.
There's only one correct way to wear the uniform.
When any deviations and dress are condoned within the services, the way is open to the
destruction of all uniformity and unity.
It's not what you preach.
You condoned remisses.
You're opening.
Now, this might be a little bit extreme.
When he says that when you're out of uniform, you allow these units of the way is open
to the destruction of all uniformity and unity.
I'm not sure I 100% agree with that.
And I was always very pro uniform and making sure that guys were square to wear in their
uniforms.
With the most stringent in the seal teams, in the seal teams, is not uniforms are not real
good at wearing uniforms and looking good uniforms and being square to wear uniforms.
So it's kind of hard for me to agree that that opens up the way for the destruction of all
uniformity.
But the lesson here is more about the uniforms.
It's more about just, it's not what you preach.
It's what you dollar it.
Yeah, that's slippery slope situation.
Yes, it is.
Well, opening the ways it necessarily ensuring something true.
True.
I'll give it to you.
You get me on the technicality sometimes, that's fine.
Okay, with that, I'm plastic in my mind.
I can accept that plastic, you know, some people say plastic like, oh, that guys,
but plastic, meaning like he's fake or something like that.
Oh, yeah.
This is for like plasticity.
Yes, absolutely.
In the 1950 before plastic was everything that we used.
I used to have this theory that anything that was made of metal was better.
It just made everything of metal.
I wanted to make everything that was made metal.
Right.
Don't they say stuff?
That's the same thing about like food and bacon.
Like anything bacon is better.
Similar.
It would be correct.
Yeah.
It can's good.
Back to the book.
No leader ever fails his men.
No, they fail him who leads them in respect for the discipline of life.
Between these two things, discipline in itself and a personal faith in the military value
of discipline lies all the difference between military maturity and mediocrity.
A salute from an unwilling man is as meaningless as the moving of a leaf on a tree.
It is a sign only that the subject has been caught by a gust of wind.
But a salute from the man who takes pride in the gesture because he feels privileged
to wear the uniform of the United States having found the service good is the epitome
of military virtue.
Until man are severely tried, there is no conclusive test of their discipline nor proof.
That their training at arms is satisfying a legitimate military end.
Military forces remain relatively undisciplined until physically toughened and mentally
conditioned to unusual exertion.
Consider the road march.
No body of men could possibly enjoy the dust, the heat, the blistered foot and the aching
back, but a hard road marching is necessary if a sound foundation is to be built under
the discipline of fighting forces, particularly those whose labors are in the field.
And the gain comes quickly.
The rise in spirits within any organization which is always to be observed after they
rebound from a hard march does not come essentially from the feeling of relief that the
strain is passed but rather from the satisfaction that a goal has been crossed.
It must be accepted that discipline does not break down under the strain of placing a
testing demand upon the individual.
It is slough and not activity that destroys discipline.
Think about that one.
Although it is not the strain, it is not the pressure that you put that breaks down the
discipline, it is the laziness, it is the slough that breaks discipline.
Troops can endure hard going when it serves an understandable end.
This is what they will boast about.
Mainly when the fatigue is ended, a large part of training is necessarily directed toward
conditioning them for unusual hardship and privation.
They can take it and stride, but no power on earth can reconcile them to what common sense
tells them is unnecessary hardship which might have been avoided by greater intelligence
in their superiors.
If you are telling people to do something, they realize that there is an easier way to do
it.
They are going to be angry when they are overloaded, they know it.
When they are required to form a parade two hours ahead of time because their commander got
over anxious or didn't know how to write an order, again, they know it.
They are perfectly right if they go sour because this kind of thing happens a little too
often within the command.
Within our system, that discipline is nearest perfect which assures to the individual, the
greatest freedom of thought and action.
While at all times promoting his feeling of responsibility toward the group, the red,
do you hear about the greatest form of discipline is the one that gives the greatest freedom
of thought and action?
That's what we want.
We want the discipline to equal freedom.
That's interesting his take on like when you go through some hard stuff, the satisfaction
isn't that it's over.
It's the fact that you did that absolutely.
Yeah, it's like, you know, I told you, it might hold sleep.
I mean, we'll use to be it worth if I didn't get my half hours done for the day.
But so now let's say I get two hours sleep.
And I'm like, hey, I'm gonna still do this work.
I would do whatever this condition is something hard.
Sure, it's gonna be hard.
Sure, I'm not looking forward to it.
But yeah, the satisfaction is afterwards all you can go to, how it's at it, you're gonna
have something to brag about.
If there's something like that, that's true.
You go and tell your friends, hey, I did this way only to hours sleep.
Got it.
Yeah, you do kind of have that feeling like you want to brag about it.
No doubt.
Like I did some hard stuff.
You know, we shouldn't be surprised.
We're kind of getting excited when these things completely make sense.
These are, these are generals that knew and understand human nature.
And these are things that we look at and we learn and we've experienced.
So it shouldn't come as a surprise.
Yeah, I know.
It's crazy.
It's like tunnel vision, you know, where it'll happen and you almost like you don't
even realize it'll happen.
Everyone does that.
Everyone does something for hard.
For sure.
Get through hard work day, did something under these circumstances.
That they hate.
They might even be complaining about it.
Like, oh, this was going on so such a stressful day.
But when you get it actually done, you brag about it.
At the very least, you feel like you want to brag about it.
And keep that good person that, you know, keep that up.
Now there's some counter to that.
Here we go.
Back to the book, if the man is cramped by monotonous routine or made to feel that he
cannot move unless an order is barked, he cannot develop these qualities and he will never
come forward as a junior leader.
So if you put too much discipline on somebody, they're going to your crept their leadership
up capabilities.
Say that all the time.
In the words of dupeque, who saw so deeply into the hearts of fighting men, if one does
not wish bonds broken, one should make them elastic and thereby strengthen them.
That's a guy.
He wrote a thing called the battle studies.
Well, actually, he didn't finish writing it because he got killed in action, fighting
fighting.
Napoleon, he was French, fighting again in the, say fighting the Russians.
But yet another great quote from him that I wrote down, nothing can be, nothing can wisely
be prescribed in any army without exact knowledge of the fundamental instrument of man
and the state of mind, his morale at the instant of combat.
So to peak is a guy that really started looking at the mentality of guys.
We might have to get it.
We might have to dive into him at some point.
Now, speaking of morale, the next section is about morale.
A word war to blue jacket said it this way.
Blue jacket's turn for Navy guys said it this way.
Morales when your hands and feet keep working when your head says it can't be done.
The handiest beginning is to consider morale and conjunction with discipline.
Since in military service, their opposite sides of the same coin, when one is present,
the other will also be there.
Moral and discipline.
Moral and discipline, they go together.
This is a familiar story.
It was repeated by the United States forces in World War II during the Normandy had
road fighting and the invasions of the Central Pacific atolls.
Troops had to learn the hard way how to hit, how to survive, in moving through jungle
or cross mountains in the desert.
When that happened, the only disciplinary residue which mattered was obedience to orders.
The movements they had learned by rope were of less value than the spiritual bond between
one man and another.
The most valuable lesson was that of mutual support.
So, this is awesome.
The moves, the battle moves that they learned, that they trained, that were hard and put
them through this hard, getting ready to deploy overseas.
When they got overseas, they were fighting in a hedger, they never did that before, they're
fighting in a mountain, they never did that before.
So they had to take these drills that they had learned and kind of throw them out the window.
So all they had left and the most valuable thing of all that training wasn't to move
in themselves, it was the spiritual bond between these men.
That was more important than the tactical maneuvers, was the fact that they did hard training
together and they worked together and they knew each other and had that spiritual bond.
Back to the book, in its essentials discipline is not measured according to how a man
keeps step in a drill yard or whether he salutes it just the right angle.
The test is how well he willingly responds to his superior in all vital matters and finally,
whether he stands or runs when his life is at stake.
History makes this clear, there are countless examples of successful military forces
which had almost no discipline when measured by the usual yard sticks.
It had a high battle morale, productive of the kind of discipline which beats the enemy in battle.
So that's another little dichotomy, you know, they've talked about it.
You might not be the most disciplined on the parade field, but if you've got that bond
and you've got that discipline bond, you can still come up with the victory.
This is important.
Back to the book, man is able to recognize a right and reasonable discipline as such, even though
it causes him personal inconvenience because he's acquired a sense of military values.
But if it is either unduly harsh or unnecessarily lacks, he likewise knows it and
wears it as a hair shirt to the undoing of his morale.
So the man, like the group, can be hurt by being pushed beyond sensible limits, his spirit
will suffer even more sorely.
If no real test is put upon his abilities and moral powers.
The greater his intelligence, the stronger will be his resentment.
That is the law of nature.
The enlightened mind has always the greatest measure of self-discipline, but it also has
a higher sense of what constitutes justice, fair play and a reasonable requirement in the
performance of duty.
If denied these things, he will come to hold his chief, his job and himself in contempt.
So if you get the if you're a military leader or if you're a civilian leader and you get
the idea, okay, Jockel, talking about discipline, discipline's key, so you're going to come
in and just throw discipline on your people and burden them with this heavy realm of discipline,
it's not going to work out because everyone knows that it's unjust unfair.
Unnecessary.
We don't want that unnecessary discipline, but we embrace women.
I will believe that we deep inside, we embrace the hardcore discipline if it makes sense
and has meaning.
Admiral Ben Moril has stated a formula in understanding terms by his explanation of what
made the CB's notable for competence and devotion to duty during World War II.
What he said is this, we used artisans to do the work for which they had been trained in civilian
life.
They were well led by officers who spoke their language.
We made them feel that they were playing an important part in a great adventure and thus
they achieved a high standard of morale.
The elements underscored by Admiral Moril deserve special note, saddest faction in a work
program, mutual confidence between leaders and ranks conviction that all together were striving
for something more important than themselves.
Talk about the CB's, the construction battines and the Navy that do engineering work overseas
and I actually had CB's with us in a remedy that were awesome, awesome guys that didn't
everything for us, they kept everything going, kept everything running, kept everything working,
built everything that we used awesome guys and every CB I've ever worked with has been
just a beast, they have that attitude.
They know they're gonna, their motto is can't do and believe me when you tell them to
do something, they're 100% into that motto right there, they're gonna make it happen.
Here we go back to the book, talking about Moril.
Training conditions are in combat, the mental ills and the resulting morale, moral and
physical deterioration which sometimes be set military forces cannot be cured simply
by the intensification of disciplinary methods.
Can't just turn it up.
It is true that the signs of recovery will sometimes attend the installation of a more rigid
or less rigid discipline.
You can't just go up or down.
The onset is in fact usually due to the collateral influence of an increased confidence
in the command, whereby men are made to feel that their own fortunes are on the mend.
Then discipline and morale are together revitalized almost as if by throwing an electric
switch.
In Army history there's no better example of the working of this principle than the
work of Brigadier General Paul B. Malone.
He took over, this is World War I, 1919.
He took over a command where slackness and indiscipline were general.
The men were suffering terrible privation and too many of their officers were indifferent
to their needs.
Many of them had been battle casualties, some had been discharged from hospitals before
their wounds were healed, the mess was abominable.
The camp was short of firewood and other supply, in freezing weather, men were sleeping
on the ground with only a pair of blankets of peace.
The death toll from influenza pneumonia and the aggravation of battle wounds rose daily.
The spare and resentment over these conditions began to express itself in semi-violent form.
Every fresh breath of discipline was counted with harassing punishments until an air of
wretched stagnation hung over the whole camp.
General purging visited the base.
The men refused to form for him.
The men were through the generals coming in the men were not going to form up for him.
When he tried to address them at a mass meeting they wouldn't hear him out.
Instead of taking any action against the men he sent for general Malone.
The new commander arrived without any instructions except to determine what was wrong and
correct it.
It's sogently instinct he recognized that the indiscipline of the camp was an effect
and not a cause.
But even as he gave orders for leaving the physical distress of the men he demanded
that they returned to orderly habits.
He walked around the areas already on his orders.
On his orders duckboards were being laid throughout the mud.
And the whole physical setup was in a process of reorganization.
The men, grown listless from weeks of mistreatment, paid no heed.
Get on your feet.
I'm your general.
I respect you but I want your respect to where his words.
They restored the whole situation.
The first impact of this one man on the camp that was never forgotten by anyone who saw
it.
It is a point to remember, a firm hold at the beginning pays tenfold dividend of the
timid approach.
World by a show of firmness later on.
Within 48 hours the physical condition of the camp was showing improvement and 60,000 men
were again doing their duty and bearing themselves in a military manner.
The lessons from this one incident stand out like beams from a search light battery.
Leadership.
One man is able to accomplish a miracle by an active will accompanied by good works.
The morale of the force flows from self-discipline of the commander.
And in turn the discipline of the force is reestablished by the upsurge of its moral power.
Another example here, when the redeployment period which followed World War II threatened
to complete collapse to the morale of the general military establishment, the remedy
attempted by some unit leaders was to relax discipline and the work requirement all around.
Other officers met this crisis by improving the conditions of work, setting an example
which proved to the men that they believed in its importance and paying sensuous attention
to the personal problems of those within the unit.
They found that they could still get superior performance in the midst of chaos, organic
strength materializes in the same way on the field of war.
However, adverse the general situation, men will stick to the one man who knows what he wants
to do and welcomes them to a full share in the enterprise.
Leadership, leadership and leadership.
Most important thing on the battlefield.
In the words of Colonel G. F. R. Henderson, it is the leader who reckons with the human
nature of his troops and of the enemy rather than with their mere physical attributes,
numbers, armament and the like who can hope to follow in Napoleon's footsteps.
Got to know your people, got to know human nature.
Got to know human nature.
It's more important than physical, more important than people you got.
More important than their weapons, human nature.
There are a few governing principles and before considering their application in detail,
we should first think about the file.
So now we're talking about a guy, a troop, a soldier.
He is a man.
He expects to be treated as an adult, not a school boy.
He has rights.
They must be made known to him and thereafter respected.
He has ambition.
It must be stirred.
He has a belief in fair play.
It must be honored.
He has the need of comrade ship.
It must be supplied.
He has imagination.
It must be stimulated.
He has a personal sense of dignity.
It must not be broken down.
He has pride.
It can be satisfied and made the bedrock of his character once he gains assurance that
he is playing a useful and respected part in a superior and successful organization.
To give men working as a group, the feeling of great accomplishment together is the
acne of inspired leadership.
You could basically, if you're going into a leadership position, just read that to yourself
every morning.
Just what your support and what they are.
A man, be treated as adult, not a school boy.
Those are just so important the way you view your troops.
Some people have a hard time with that.
Next section is called knowing your job.
In one of his little known passages, Robert Lewis Stevenson, Dr. Jackalomester Hyde,
and the perfect portrait of the man who finally failed in everything because he never
learned how to take hold of his work.
It goes like this.
His career was one of Unbroken Shame.
He did not drink.
He was exactly honest.
He was never rude to his employers.
He was everywhere discharged.
Bringing no interest to his duties, he brought no attention.
His day was a tissue of things neglected and things done a mess.
And from place to place and from town to town, he carried the character of one thoroughly
incompetent.
That's how we started this conversation.
Today we started talking about doing your job.
Now this is important.
Just as a rough approximation, any officers work week should comprise about 50% execution
and the other half study if he is to make the best use of his force.
The woods are loaded with go-getters who claim they are men of action and therefore have
no need of books.
We're talking about studying.
We're talking about reading and studying.
These guys that say that there's no need for books, they are of the same bone and marrow
as the drone who is always counseling half-speed.
Don't sweat.
Just get by.
Extra work means short life.
You're better off if they don't notice you.
This chant can be heard by anyone who cares to listen.
It's the old American invitation and mediocrity.
But not always them is to be found in books.
And at no time is this more true than when one is breaking in.
What is expected of any novice in any field is that he will ask questions.
Smart ones if possible, but if not, then questions of all kinds until he learns that there
is no such item as revely oil.
And that skirmish line doesn't come on spools.
So revely oil, revely is when you wake up in the morning.
And revely oil is something that doesn't actually exist.
But you'd say to a new guy, we need to get some revely oil for tomorrow.
Can you go down to supply and get it for me?
Or skirmish line to skirmish line is when you get online to engage the enemy.
Get online and put your guns in the same direction.
That's called a skirmish line.
Well, he said, hey, we need a spool, a skirmish line.
Echo, can you run down to the supply department and get us a roller skirmish line?
That's kind of like little practical jokes.
But his point is, here, people ask me to solve them.
Well, you know, I just checked in.
I'm just taking over as leader.
I'm just, you know, I'm a new officer.
I'm getting commissioned.
What should I do?
How should I lead?
Ask questions.
There's nothing wrong with it.
Back to the book.
Wisdom begins at the point of understanding that there is nothing shameful about ignorance.
It is shameful only when a man would rather remain in that state than cultivate other
men's knowledge.
There is never any reason why he should hesitate for his better to be embarrassed from seeking
counsel than to be found short for not having sought it.
Ideally, any officer should be able to do the work of any man under him.
However, it is obviously absurd to expect that any officer could know more about radio repair
than his repairman.
For about mapping than his cartographical section, more about moving parts than a gunsmith,
more about radar than a specialist in electronics, and more about cipher than a cryptographer.
The distinction lies in the difference between the power to do a thing well and that of
being able to judge when it is done well.
A man can say a book is bad, though not knowing how to write one himself provided he
is a student of literature, though he is never laid in egg he can pass fair judgment
on an omelet.
So this is another thing, you know, you're not going to know everything as a leader.
You know, that I know as much about sniper, sniping as my sniper did I even know close.
You know, that I know as much about, just like he said, I was much about the radio, is
my radio-mended?
No, no, close to what they knew.
You don't need to know everything, but you have to have an understanding of it.
And you have to at least be able to understand that something is being done right or wrong.
This is another good point.
We can ponder the words of William Hazlet, a man who shrinks from a collision with his
equals of superiors will soon sink below himself.
We improve by trying our strength with others, not by showing it off.
So you can't be afraid to bring stuff up to your superiors.
Do you got to be respectful?
Yes, you do.
But instead of just being a yes man, don't be that.
Now this next section.
It's called writing and speaking.
Other things being equal a superior rating will invariably be given to the officer who
is preserved in his studies of the art of self-expression.
While his colleague who attaches little importance to what may be achieved through working
with the language will be marked for mediocrity.
So we're talking about reading and speaking, writing and speaking.
As the British statesman does Rayleigh put it, men govern with words.
Within the military establishment command is exercised through what is said, which commands
attention and understanding and through what is written, which directs, explains, interprets
or informs.
Battles are one through the ability of men to express concrete ideas in clear and unmistakable
language.
Battles are one through clear and unmistakable language.
That's how battles are one.
Back to the book, all administration is carried forward along the chain of command by the
power of men to make their thoughts articulate and available to others.
There is no way under the sun that this basic condition can be altered.
Once the point is granted, any officer should be ready to accept its corollary.
That superior qualification in the use of language both as to the written and the spoken
word is more essential to military leadership than knowledge of the whole technique of weapons
handling.
So when people ask me why I studied English in college, this is why I studied English
in college.
Some men will take refuge in the excuse offered by the great majority.
I'm just a simple fighting file with no gift for writing or speaking.
That is the mark of an officer who has no ambition to properly qualify himself and is seeking
to justify his own laziness.
And the reason he's saying that is because he thinks that you can become a good writer.
Back to the book, writers are self-made.
But it is a reasonable speculation that history might never have heard of the greater number
of these men.
Had they not worked sedulously to become proficient with the pen as well as with the sword.
Men who command words to serve their thoughts and feelings are well on their way to
commanding men to serve their purposes.
All senior commanders respect the junior who has a faculty for thinking and idea through
and then expressing it comprehensively and clear, unvarnished phases.
So your young young leader out there, young trooper, think about improving your method
of thought, think about making your speech more clear.
Many men who has the brain to qualify for commission can make of himself a competent writer.
Because of natural limitations, he may never excel in this art, but if he has had average
schooling, knows how to open a dictionary, can find his way to the library and is willing
to commit himself to long study and practice, particularly in non-duty hours, and will
finally free himself from the superstition that writing is a game only for specialists.
He can acquire all the skill that is necessary to further his advance within the military
profession.
But where should work begin, how about a little practical advice?
The only way to learn to write is to write.
That's it.
There's no other secret, other than hard, unremitting practice.
Most writers at the start are mentally muscle bound and poorly coordinated.
They have thoughts in their head.
They think they can develop them clearly, but when they try to apply a largely dormant
vocabulary to the expression of these thoughts, the result is stiff and self-conscious.
Self-conscious.
The only cure for this is constant mental exercise with one's pen or over one's type
writer.
The discipline, through which one learns to write adds substance to thought, whereby one's
ideas are given body and connection.
Such common faults as worreness over statement, faulty sentence structure and weak
use of words are gradually corrected with their passing confidence grows.
This does not mean however that the task becomes easy.
So you can get better this game.
You just got to practice.
Kind of like getting better at pull ups.
I get better at pull ups.
Do pull ups.
Now this is interesting.
Speaking of reading and or speaking of writing, now we get into reading a little bit
here.
This is good.
It is a good habit to underscore passages and books which have contributed something
vital to one's own thought.
Break out the high lighters.
I kind of laughed when I read that because I have a lot of high lighters.
I think you went winchester on a couple of days.
Yeah, that's right.
Now this is talking about going back to writing again as a practical matter is better to concentrate
on a few elementary rules of thumb, such as our contained in the following list, then
to bog down attempting to heed everything that the pendants have said about how to become a writer.
So here's some advice on writing and you'll notice that these are good advice on life.
The more simply a thing is said, the more powerfully it influences those who read.
Plain words make strong writing.
There is always one best word to convey a thought or a feeling, to accept the weaker
substitute rather than to search for the right word will deprive any writing of force.
Economy of words in the great composition.
In all writing but in military writing particularly, there is no excuse for vague terminology
or phrases which do not convey an exact expression of what was done or what is intended.
And just think about how you communicate with your subordinates and think about these rules.
So impactful.
This is a good one.
It is better at all times to reign in.
The strength of military writing like the soundness of military operations does not gain
through overstatement and artificial coloring.
The bigger the subject, the less it needs in pro-eatery.
Now, it's going to start talking here, go from talking about writing to talk about speaking.
A majority of the world's most gifted writers would in all probability be dumbstruck
if put before an audience.
Though dealing confidently with ideas, they lack the confidence when dealing with people.
The military officer has need of both talents and as to where the accent should be placed
to this probably more important that he should speak well than his writing prose should
be polished.
A unit commander may permit a clerk or a subordinate to do the greater part of his paperwork,
either because his own time is taken with other duties or because he is awkward at it.
But if he permits any other voice to dominate the councils of the organization, he soon
ceases to exercise moral authority over it.
So you gotta be confident in your speaking.
A little bit more important than the writing because you can have your guys do some writing.
Yeah, I'll sign it.
Looks good to me.
This guy, one of the bosses I had.
So he'd always misuse words, almost to the point where you know how some comedians will
do that, like he'll misuse.
He notch does that a lot of time, but this guy would for real do it.
But you know what it was, is you know how the guy who's, they want to try to sound smart
basically and got a good idea.
Like, so he would use the word like irregardless.
He would say irregardless, this is a supposed to regardless.
And then there's another one that it's so funny because it was so counterproductive because
when he would talk and we'd all be holding in our laughter and I'd work with this other
guy.
He was a kind of relentless jokes, you know, when you're gone.
So if you did something and in this case you'd misuse words or when he leaves brother jokes
would come and it'd be just so funny.
But nonetheless he would use behoof, you know, behoof.
It would behoof.
Yeah, here's a behoof.
I think it is behoof, but you're right, because that's what I thought anyway, that's
a whole lot of thing.
But anyway, behoof then.
So he would misuse that word.
He would, he thought it meant what, he thought it meant baffling.
Like, you know what really behoves me is that they do it this way.
And then he keep doing it, you know.
And so anyway, the point there is where you kind of, you got to know how to talk, right?
So, and in this case, this was, this wasn't like some high levels like speeches he was
making or addressed the game.
It was just like normal stuff.
So right, I thought that that was kind of critical in the way we regarded him as a part.
That was one of the major things where we can't even take this guy seriously.
Yeah, because he be hoofs me with everything.
He was really be hoofing.
He was like, oh, you're wrong usage.
It's okay, people.
Yeah, it's not okay.
I guess the point there, a Nora separate point is learn the words, be free, start trying
to throw them out, I guess.
And that goes, that would be your scene.
That would be very, yeah, that would be who, what you're saying about, it's better to
seek the knowledge and be embarrassed because you got to seek to rather than get it called
out when you don't know it or whatever.
Anyway, the opportunity was to.
Back to the book, the matter of nerve is a main element in speaking.
When an officer is ill at ease, fidgety and not to the point, the vote of his command for
the time being is no confidence.
And so long as he remains that way, they will not change.
No matter though, his good will shines for through another acts.
So that's what you just said, if someone's jacked up when they're trying to talk to you
and talk to the group, your vote is no confidence.
Yeah, that's a constant vote.
As for this is a good, back to the book.
As for how an officer should talk to his men, his manner in tone should be no different
than if he were addressing his fellow officers or for that matter, a group of the intellectual
and political peers from any walk of life.
If he is stuffy, he will not succeed.
If he affects a superior manner, that is a mark of his inferiority.
If he is patronizing and talks to grown men as a teacher might talk to a class of adolescence,
the rug figuratively will be pulled out from under him.
His audience will put down what put him down as a chump.
It is curiously the case that the junior officer who can't get the right pitch when he
talks to the ranks will also be out of tune when he talks to his superiors.
This failing is a sign mainly that he needs practice in the school of human nature.
I listening a little more carefully to other men, he may find himself in time, attain maturity.
Another good way to get better at speaking is by listening.
No doubt.
When you're speaking sometimes you're instructing in one of the pieces here is called the
Art of Instruction because you spend so much time when you're in a leadership position.
You're instructing people whether you realize you're instructing people.
Here's the rules that they say to follow.
Keep it simple.
Have one main object, stay on the course, remain cheerful, be enthusiastic, put it out
as if the ideas were as interesting and novel to you as to your audience.
This is a story which really doesn't know what has to do with instruction, but it's
cool stories from the reading anyways because it's just badass.
In World War I, the American major, named now long forgotten was given the task of making
the rounds and talking to all combat formations and convincing them that the future was bright.
No boy scout Aaron.
So you imagine your world war one.
We've talked about that.
It's a nightmare in his job as to go around and ensure people that the future is bright.
But wherever he went, morale was lifted by his words.
And substance, in substance, what he said was this.
None of us cares about making a living with any individuals who wants every break his own
way.
But when the odds are even, the gamble is worth any good man's time.
So let's look at the proportion.
You now have one chance and two.
You may go overseas or you may not.
Suppose you do.
You still have one chance and two.
You may go to the front or you may not.
If you don't, you'll see a foreign country at Uncle Sam's expense.
If you do, you'll find out about war, which is the toughest chance of them all.
But up there, on the front, you still have one chance and two.
You may get hit or you may not.
If you breeze through it, you'll be a better man for all the rest of your life.
And if you get hit, you still have one chance and two.
You may get a small wound and become a hero to your friends and family.
Or there is always the last chance that it may take you out all together.
And while that is a little rugged, it is at least worth remembering that very few people
seem to get out of this life alive.
Classic.
Now talking about reading Napoleon once said that the point that a trouble with books
is that one must read so many bad ones to find something really good.
True enough.
But even so, there are perfectly practical ways to advance rapidly without undue-waste
emotion.
Consider this, among one's superiors, there are always discriminating men who have
adopted a few good books after reading many, many bad ones.
And they say that a text is worthwhile, it deserves reading and careful study.
So, what books did somebody you respect read?
They said it's good book, read it.
Now you gotta be careful because the well-read man need not have more than a dozen books
in his home provided that they all count with him.
And he continues to pull over them and ponder the weight of what is said.
On the other hand, the ignorant man is frequently marked by his bookshelf stocked with titles
not one of which suggests that he has any professional discernment.
Now I can tell you right now, I'm building a library of books that's kind of crazy
because every time somebody hits me up on social media and says, hey, you gotta shout
this book.
I used to go on Amazon and kind of look at read reviews now.
I just wore a grit.
I mean, basically order it because I don't have time and it's hard to tell from the reviews
and it takes much time.
It's easier just to push click by now.
Yeah.
Amazon, I'm clicking through the Jockel Podcast Store website.
So we're giving back to the podcast.
But the thing is, a lot of people might think this book is great.
All this to be a great book, but it doesn't quite work.
So I'm probably getting, I'd say one out of every five books that I ordered to
say, yeah, this one's this one's game.
Yeah.
What he's saying there about the difference between somebody who was a huge stock
of books is he's saying like a variety of different books that doesn't, it's
something but not indicating any kind of expertise or something.
It just says he just shows that he doesn't have any discernment.
This guy just buying a bunch of books.
He might not know anything about him.
It doesn't mean it don't touch a book by its cover.
Pond intended.
You know, just because this guy's got a bunch of books.
It doesn't mean that he's read them all doesn't mean that he actually, they're all
great books.
Really?
I can tell you right now, they're not long-grain books in the world.
Yeah.
A lot of books are not good.
And you shouldn't waste your time reading them.
But if you walked into a guy that was smart that you were speculated 12 books, I would
just write them all down and go buy them all.
Yeah.
And you're probably going to be 10 for 12 for 12.
Or at least 10 for 12.
Whereas if I go into your room and you've got 570 books in there, yeah.
These are all great books.
There's something wrong with your discernment.
You don't know what a good book is.
Yeah.
So get some discernment.
Or I'm just trying to make like I read so much.
You're going to make 570 books.
This section, your relationships with your men.
And I had to break.
I had to say this part.
And officers not expected to appear all wise to those who serve under him.
So often guys feel that pressure that they think they should know everything.
Yeah.
Oh my gosh.
I don't know if I admit that.
I don't know this.
I'm going to look bad.
Bluffing ones away through a question when ignorant of the answer is full-hardy business.
I'm sorry, but I don't know.
It's just as appropriate from an officer's lips is from any other.
And it helps a little more to add, but I'll find out.
Rank should be used to serve one's subordinates.
It should never be flaunted or used to get the upper hand of a subordinate any situation
safe where he has already discredited himself in an unusually ugly or unseemingly manner.
When suggestions from any subordinate are adopted, the credits should be passed on to him
publicly.
When a subordinate is made a mistake, but not from any lack of good will, it is common
sense to take the rap for him rather than make him suffer doubly for his error.
An officer should not issue orders which he cannot enforce.
He should be as good as his word at all times and in any circumstance.
He should promise nothing which he cannot make stick.
An officer should not work looking over his men's shoulders, checking on every detail of what
they're doing and calling them to account at every furlong past.
This made and lead attitude corrode confidence and destroys initiatives so don't micromanage.
On the other hand, contact is necessary at all times, particularly when men are doing long-term
work or operating in a detachment at a remote point.
They will become discouraged and will lose their sense of direction unless their superior
looks in on them periodically.
Ask them whether he can be of any help and so doing gets them to open up the discussion
and the problem.
The Navy says this is another good one right here.
The Navy says it isn't courtesy to change the set of the sale within 30 minutes after
the relief of watch.
Applied to command job this means that it is a mistake for an officer on taking a new
post to order sweeping changes affecting the other men.
In the belief that this will give a reputation for action and firmness.
The studying of the situation is the overture of the setting of it.
The story is told of Curtis E. Lamay of the Air Force taking over the 21st bomber
command and the Mariana's.
He faced the worried staff officers of his predecessor and said quietly, you're all
staying put.
I assume you know your jobs or you wouldn't be here.
Pretty simple.
Then people always ask, come into a new year.
What do I do when I take over?
Relax.
Be humble.
Listen.
Observe.
Don't need to jump in there and change the set of the sale.
All right, echo's gone now.
I'm in charge.
Change everything.
No, wrong answer.
This next section, your men's moral and physical welfare.
When men are moral, the moral power which binds them together and fits them for high
action is given its main chance for success.
Now listen to these.
To be temperate and all things, to be content and refrain from loose living of any sort
are acts of the will.
They require self-denial and are forgoing of that which may be more attractive in favor
of the thing which should be done.
Granted there are few individuals who are so thin blooded that they never feel tempted to
digress morally.
Men in the majority are not like that.
So there's some guys that just on the straight narrow.
They're so thin blooded that they just get no temptations.
Most men, they get temptations.
What they were now in the name of self-discipline at the cost of a considerably and considerable
interest, they endeavored to compensate by gains in their personal character.
Making that grade isn't easy, but no one who is anyone has yet said that it isn't worthwhile.
In the armed services they're an old saying that an officer without character is more useless
than a ship with no bottom.
In summing up the strength of will, which enables a man to lead a clean life is no different
than the strength of purpose which fits him to follow a hard line of duty.
There are exceptions to every rule.
Many a lovable rounder has proved himself to be a first class fighting man.
But even though he had an uncorcoable weakness for drinking women, his resolution had
to become steeled along some other line or he would have been no good when the payoff came.
So this is saying that the strength of will that it takes to stay strong in all these
situations, all these temptations that will is real and that can transfer over.
Now I can tell you that this one is there's all the militaries filled.
He says many a lovable rounder has proved himself to be a first class fighting man.
Of course, guys, they're bad ass guys throughout the ages that were even Henry the
fifth out of wild man reputation.
Going back to Shakespeare.
So, but he's saying that these staying on the straight narrow enforces your will is what
he's saying.
Back to the book, putting aside for the moment the question of the vices and regarding
only the gain to moral power, which comes of bodily exercise and physical condition.
So he's talked about vices, okay, we got it.
Stay clean.
Stay clean is what he's saying.
But now he's saying there's something else or something called exercise and physical conditioning.
It should be self-evident that the process which builds the muscle must also train and
alert the mind.
How could it be otherwise?
Every physical act must have as its origin, a mental impulse, conscious or unconscious.
Thus, in training a man to master his muscles, we also help him to master his brain.
He comes out of physical training not only better condition to move, but better prepared
to think about how and why he is moving, which is true mobility.
So you want to strengthen your will?
Yes.
Stay clean.
Stay on the moral path and then get your physical conditioning on because that's going
to make you mentally tougher.
Back to the book in the United States service, we are tending to forget because of the
effective motorization that the higher value of the discipline of the road march in other
days wasn't that it hardened the muscles.
But that short of combat, it was the best method of separating the men from the boys.
This is true today, despite all the new conditions imposed by technological changes.
A hard road march is the most satisfactory training test of the moral strength of the
individual man.
At the same time, to sensibly overload men, for road marching hurts them in two ways.
So there's a dichotomy to everything.
So you can hurt them with the road march.
Here's the two ways.
It weakens their faith in the sense of the command, thereby impairing morale, and it breaks
down their muscle and tendon.
So you overload them, you're going to crush them, you're going to break them, and you're
going to ruin their spirit.
There is another not infrequent cause of breakdown.
The leader who makes the mistake of thinking that every man's limit is the same as his
own.
So you, oh, I can do this.
I can dump in 20 miles or 20 clicks.
Everyone can do it, wrong answer.
When an officer does this kind of thing thoughtlessly, he shows himself to be an incompetent
observer of men.
He does it to show off he deserves to be given 10 days in the electric chair.
Hey, there you go.
Get me electric chair, 10 days.
That's like how many times do you die in 10 days in the electric chair?
No, a lot.
But don't show off.
It's the point.
Yeah.
Otherwise you're going in the electric chair for 10 days.
But isn't that like an old classic thing in the movie where it's usually to combat
like a situation where the guys are complaining.
You know, all of this is unrealistic.
I don't know, obstacle course.
Yeah.
And then the drill sergeant or whoever.
He does it.
You know, he's like the older guy.
Well, yeah, he's proving that look.
I'm not asking you do anything that I wouldn't do myself.
Yeah.
That's all that that is.
Right.
But in a way, he's like, hey, I can do it.
So you should be able to do it.
That's true.
Guess what?
A young recruit should be able to do it.
Oh, what's it?
Otherwise you're not reaching the standards.
We've got to have standards.
Yeah.
But if you were saying, hey, you should be able to do this with one on a time behind
your back like I can.
Could have been a big wrong.
Yeah.
You see the difference, sir?
Oh, yeah.
Because I make sure, because otherwise you can get me on the tech
Picallity.
Don't want that to happen over here.
Speaking of athletic accomplishments in the nature of things, the officer who's
been an athlete can fit himself into this part of the program with little difficulty and with
great credit provided he acts with moderation that it here is suggested.
By the same token, the officer who has shunned sports in school either because he didn't
have the size or coordination or it's more interested in something else will frequently
have an understandable hesitation about trying to play the lead hand in anything which
he thinks will make him look bad.
Just talking about the benefits of the sports.
If he has not kept himself in good physical shape, his nerves will not be able to stand
the strain of combat to say nothing of his legs.
It can be said again and again, the highest form of physical training that an officer
can undergo is the physical conditioning of his own men.
Nothing else can give him more faith in his own ability to stay the course and nothing
else is likely to give him a firm or feeling of solidarity with his men.
Study and an active thirst for wider professional knowledge have their place in an officer's
scheme of things but there is something about the experience of bodily competition of
joining with and leading men in strunuous physical exercise which uniquely invigorates
one spirit with the confidence I can do this.
I can lead.
I can command.
The body and minor connected everybody.
No it.
Back to the book, the really good thing about the gain and moral force deriving from
all forms of physical training is that it is an unconscious gain.
Willpower, determination, mental poise and muscle control all march hand in hand with
the general health and well-being of the man.
With results not less decisive under training conditions than on the field of battle.
A man who develops correct posture and begins to fill out his body so that he looks
the part of a fighter will take greater pride in wearing of the uniform.
In doing so, he will take greater care to conduct himself morally that he will not disgrace
it.
He will gain confidence as he acquires a confident and determined bearing.
The same presence and the physical strength which contributes to it will help carry him
through the hour of danger.
The strength of will is partly of the mind and partly of the body.
In combat fatigue will be down men as quickly as any other condition for fatigue inevitably
carries fear with it.
Tired men are afraid.
There is no quicker way to lose a battle than to lose it on the road for lack of preliminary
hardening intrups such a condition cannot be redeemed by the resolve of a commander who insists
on driving troops and extra mile beyond their general level of physical endurance.
So if you got guys that aren't ready, just because you're fired up doesn't mean it's
going to work.
You can't push them hard now.
Here's what happens.
Extremes of this sort make men rebellious and hateful of the command and thus strike
a tactical efficiency from two directions at once for when men resent a commander they will
not fight as willingly for him and when their bodies are spent, their nerves are gone.
Physical conditioning.
Now on top of that we got the physical conditioning.
You also have to keep your people informed in war in the absence of information,
natural promptings alternate between unresening fears that the worst is likely to happen
and a wispful thought that all danger is remote.
Either impulse is a barrier to the growth of that condition of alert confidence which
comes to men when they have a realization of their own strength and a reasonably clear
concept of the general situation.
You've got to keep your people informed as well as talking about earlier being at the
end of a poll tune.
Next section is about counseling your men.
Nothing more unfortunate can happen to an officer than to come to be regarded by his
support and says unapproachable.
For such a reputation itulates him from the main problems of the command, responsibility
as well as its chief rewards.
Now, how do you become approachable?
The two formal manner, the overrigid attitude, the disposition to deal with any human
problem by the numbers as if it were one more act in an organizational routine can have
a chilling effect upon men.
So that idea that you're just going to be by the book on everything that's not going
to make you approachable.
That being said, back to the book, it is not necessary that an officer wet nurse is
men in order to serve well in the role of counsel.
His door should be open, but he's not play the part either of father, confessor, or
of a hotel greeter.
Neither great solony or a fusedness are called for, but mainly serious attention to the
problem and then straightforward advice or decision.
According to the nature of the case and provided that from his own knowledge and experience,
he feels qualified to give it.
If not, it is wiser to defer than to offer a half-baked opinion.
So that's okay if you don't know.
Hey look, I don't know.
I'm done with this before.
Maybe you should go talk to Echo, he deals with these computers all the time, come
to me with your computer problems.
Back to the book, World War II officers had to abide by this standard dealing with
the general malaise which rose out of redeployment.
When a man came forward and said that he couldn't take it anymore and the commander knew
that he'd always been a highly, doodiful individual, it became the commander's job to attempt
to get the man home.
But when a second man came forward with the same story and the record showed that he'd always
shirked his work, the question was whether he should be given the final chance to shirk
it again.
The favor of the first man meant furthering discipline.
His comrades recognized it as a fair deal.
To turn back the second man was equally constructive to the same end.
So those are just classic.
We've seen that in just about every book we read.
With some guy World War II, we saw a bunch of it.
Some guy would just lose it and we even saw the Korean, some of the Korean books we've
covered.
The guy loses it.
But they're a good guy.
Remember the guy walked around and asleep in the back.
Look, we're just going to take care of this guy.
He's been a good guy.
We'll get him off the front.
He's got a few days left.
But then when you get a guy that's weak and scared and doesn't man up and do his duty, and
he wants to go home, they're not giving that guy the slack.
Doesn't deserve it, didn't earn it.
Now this is interesting.
There are officers who hold every subordinate like Grim Death, seeing no better way to advance
their personal fortunes.
So this is what we're talking about here is, and this happens a lot in the military.
It happens in every business I work with where you got people that are being moved around.
So like, oh, echo works.
You got this guy Billy that works for you.
Hey, I need Billy to help me with this project.
What do you say?
No, you can't have him.
He's my guy.
What are you working on right now?
I got some projects coming up.
I need him right now.
Don't say I have a project.
You know what I'm saying?
Some people go into that mode where they hold everyone like a Grim Death.
They're officers who hold every able subordinate like Grim Death, seeing no better way to
advance their personal fortunes.
This is a sign of moral weakness, not of strength, and it is inevitable fruit.
And it's inevitable fruit is discontent within the organization.
The sign of superiority in any officer at whatever level is his confidence that he can make
another good man to fill any vacancy.
The other time I don't like that is when somebody, you know, if you're going to give
me Billy and it's actually a promotion for Billy, it's like a step up, but you don't
want to give me any of these.
You're hurting him because you're trying to help yourself.
No, give the guy up.
Find somebody else new.
Find a better person.
Find somebody who's going to mold and make better.
Yeah, that happened to me before.
Were you the guy?
The guy that got didn't get promoted?
Correct.
Somebody held onto you.
Yeah, and it was less about if I did or didn't get promoted, it was that he was just
holding on.
Where, you know, took kind of negating any chance of that.
It was clear.
He actually even told me to.
Well, that was at least straightforward of him.
Yeah.
Not good.
How that work out for you for your morale?
It didn't help.
What are the other way?
Back to the book.
Some of the ableist commanders in our service have abided by this rule.
They never denied the man who had a legitimate reason for transfer.
And they never shuffled off their lemons and gold bricks under a false label.
So that does another thing that happened in businesses.
Hey, you got Billy, he'd Billy's a bum.
And I say, hey, echo, I need a guy over here to help me with this.
Oh, yeah, you can have Billy.
Great guy.
Yeah.
You can be Billy, he's a disaster.
That's a gold brick.
It's a lie.
Here's a few common sense rules which when followed will enable any officer to play
his part more effectively in the counseling of men.
And excess of expression is a failing.
So when you give away your facial expression, looks all that's a failing.
To listen well is the prelude toward pondering carefully and speaking wisely.
Listen, got to listen.
To refuse with kindness is more winning than to acquiesce ungratiously.
That's a good one.
Just anyone I don't think it's going to be rather than all right.
Yeah.
That's something you've got to deal with with your wife.
Your wife wants to go do something.
If you'd be better to say, you know what I'm thinking?
All right, let's not do that tonight.
Let's do this other thing instead.
As opposed to all right, fine.
We'll go to your friend's house.
Don't want to do that.
Yeah, I feel like a dick when you get there.
Yeah.
To note another man's mood and become congenial to it is the surest way to engage
his confidence.
Decisions which are holy of the heart and not of the mind will ultimately do hurt
to both places.
Use your logic.
Don't get emotional.
No man will talk freely if met by silence.
But an intelligent question encourages frankness above all else.
When a man loses possession of himself, it is the more reason that the other should
tighten his reserve legit.
This is a good one.
To express pity for a man does not serve to restore him and put him above pity.
And a man is so burdened by a personal problem that it shuts out all else.
He must be led to something else.
And the last one here, impudent tactics can undo the wise strategy.
And that happens at every level that happens in a ward, happens in business.
Got a great strategy, but the guys on the ground are really not doing it tactically well.
Doesn't matter the strategy you're going to fail.
The encountering like all else in military life has a combat purpose.
Other things being equal, the tactical unity of men working together in combat will
be in ratio to their knowledge and sympathetic understanding of each other.
Whatever the cause, aloofness, on the part of the officer can only produce a further
withdrawal on that part of the man, aloofness.
Now the last section of this book was really devastating on my highlighter.
It's called Americans in combat.
The command and control of men in combat can be mastered by junior leaders of American forces
short of actual experience under enemy fire.
It is altogether possible for a young officer as first time in battle to be in total possession
of his faculties and moving by instinct to do the right thing provided that he has made
the most of his training opportunities.
Exercise in the maneuvering of men is only an elementary introduction to this educational
process.
The basic requirement is continuing study first of the nature of men, second of the techniques
which produce unified action and last of the history of past operations which are covered
by an abundant literature.
That's how you got to get ready for combat.
Those things right there.
Now there are a few simple and fundamental propositions which the armed services subscribe
in saying to officer corps what may be expected of the average man of the United States under
battle conditions.
Generally speaking they have held true of Americans in times past from Lexington to Okinawa.
The fighting establishment builds its discipline, training, code of conduct and public
policy around these ideas believing that what served yesterday will also be the one best
way tomorrow.
And for so long as our traditions and our system of freedom survives, these propositions
are when led with courage and intelligence and American will fight as willingly as and
as efficiently as any fighter in world history.
I can occur with that.
His keenness and endurance and war will be in proportion to the zeal and inspiration
of his leadership.
He is resourceful and imaginative and the best results will always flow from encouraging
him to use his brain along with his spirit.
Under combat conditions he will reserve his greatest loyalty for the officer who is most
resourceful in the tactical employment of his forces and most careful to avoid unnecessary
losses.
So the soldiers going to know if you're throwing bodies away they're going to know it.
The same thing in the business world.
I've worked with a lot of companies where they do their utmost to let's say there's a
downturn in the market and they're going to fire some people and they do their best
to mitigate that.
That develops loyalty.
That makes them fight harder when the market turns back around.
Now sometimes that can be a problem because people try and be so loyal that they'd run
their business in the ground.
And they fail.
Back to the book except on a Hollywood lot there is no such thing as an American fighter
type.
Our best-month men come in all colors, shapes and sizes.
They appear from every section of the nation including the territories.
In battle, Americans do not tend to fluctuate between emotional extremes in complete
rejection one day and exaltation the next according to the changes in the situation.
They continue on the whole on a fairly even kill when a going is tough and when things
are breaking their way.
Even when heavily shocked by battle losses they tend to bound back quickly.
Though their griping is incestant, their natural outlook is on the optimistic side and
they react unfavorably to the officer who looks eternally on the dark side.
Next, during battle American officers are not expected either to drive their men or to be
forever in the van as if praying to be shot.
So the van is like on the front lines, the front of your formation.
So long as they are with their men taking the same chances as their men and showing a firm
grasp of the situation and of the line of action which should be followed, the men will
go forward.
In any situation of extreme pressure or more exhaustion where men cannot otherwise be rallied
and led forward, officers are expected to do the actual physical act of leading such as
performing as first scout or point, even though this means taking over what would normally
be an enlisted man's function.
The normal next, the normal, grigarius American is not at his best when playing alone
handed or tactically isolated part in battle.
He is not a comacosio or a one-man torpedo.
Consequently, the best tactical results obtained from those dispositions and methods which
link the power of one man to that of another.
Men who feel strange with their unit, having been carelessly received by it and indifantly
handled will rarely, if ever, fight strongly and courageously.
And if treated with common decency and respect, they will perform like men.
So that's just talking when you check in somewhere.
If you're in a military and you get somebody that checks in, take care of them.
Welcome.
If you're to company in somebody checks in, take care of them.
Welcome, show them around to sign a mentor, get them in the game.
To lie to American troops to cover up a blundering combat rarely serves any valid purpose.
They have a good sense of combat and an uncanny instinct for ferooding out the truth when
anything goes wrong tactically.
They will excuse mistakes, but they will not forgive being treated like children.
Basic leadership.
Good one here.
And spit and polish are laid on so heavily that they become onerous.
And the ranks cannot see any legitimate connection between the requirements and the development
of an attitude which will serve a clear fighting purpose.
It is to be questioned that the exaction serves any good object, whatever.
So again, I'm like leaning in the sealed teams.
I'm probably the extreme level of military bearing and uniformity, but I'm definitely not
a believer that you got everything.
Every single thing spit and polish all day long.
And they're saying clearly here that if you go so far in that direction and people don't
make any sense of it, it's not going to be good.
I mean, even picture, you know, hack worth was like Mr. Spit and polish.
Look at pictures of hack worth and Vietnam.
You wouldn't even wear a rank.
He makes one of the guys from that come into the camp that look like they're in parade
ground uniforms.
I saw a quote, like yesterday, said a spotless house is the sign of a wasted life, which
when I saw it, I tend to disagree with a lot because it basically takes one kind of perspective
and makes it into this thing.
But with this one, I was like, well, or it means you clean your house all the time.
That's where you know, maybe you're disciplined.
You clean your stuff, including your house.
I don't know.
Maybe take care of your house.
Maybe you're a clean person.
That's not a waste of life by the way.
Yeah, I think that's an extreme statement, but I think the underlying message is, hey,
live a little.
It's basically, yeah, in a way, it's kind of the
message there is kind of what you're saying.
If you take it literally, yeah, that could you could go too far down that road.
But just take it as a message.
I think the message is fairly clear.
And I, I get some more to agree with that.
Yeah, like you spent your whole life making sure everything in your house is clean.
Yeah, you know, they say also, like the highly polished samurai sword that's never been
used in battle is a lot less valuable to me than the switchblade knife that's rusty from
blood.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
K-bar that's rusty from blood.
Yeah.
Next one.
On the other hand, because standards of discipline and courtesy are designed for the
express purpose of furthering control under the extraordinary frictions and presions of
the battlefield, their maintenance under combat conditions is as necessary as during training.
This and respect are the marks of military alertness, no matter how trying the circumstances.
But courtesy starts at the top in the dealing of any officer with his subordinates and in
the decent regard for their loyalty, intelligence and manhood.
So even though you can't be over-discipline, you've to go to have the discipline.
Next though Americans enjoy relatively about to fall.
Even luxurious standard of living in their home environment, they do not have to be pampered,
spoon fed, or overfilled with every comfort and convenience to keep them steadfast and
devoted once war comes.
They are by nature rugged men and in the field they will respond most perfectly when
called on to play a rugged part.
Soft handling will soften even the best men.
But even the weak man will develop a new vigor and confidence in the face of necessary
hardship if moved by a leadership which is courageously making the best of a bad situation.
It's just awesome.
Soft handling will soften even the best men and the weak man will come around for a necessary
hardship.
You notice they put that word in their nest and not just being them up for no reason.
They gotta see why it is.
Next, extravagance and wastefulness is somewhat rooted in the American character because
of our mode of life.
When our men enter the military service, there's a strong holdover from their civilian
habits.
Even under fighting conditions, they tend to be wasteful of drinking water, food, munition,
and other vital supply when such things are made to accessible.
They tend to throw them away rather than conserve them in the general interests.
This is a distinct weakness during combat.
When conservation of all supplies, the touchstone of success, the regulating of all supply
and the preventing of waste in any form is the prime obligation of every officer.
Be frugal.
Next, under the conditions of battle.
Any extra work, exercise, maneuver, or marching, which does not serve a clear and direct
operational purpose is unjustifiable.
The supreme object is to keep men as physically fresh and mentally alert as possible.
Tired men take fright and are half whipped before the battle opens.
War now officers cannot make clear decisions.
The conservation of men's powers, not the exhaustion thereof, is the successful way of
operations.
Next, when forces are committed to combat, it is vital that not one unnecessary pound
be put on any man's back.
Lightness of foot is the key to speed of movement and the increase of fire power.
And judging of these things, every officer's thoughts should be on the optimistic side.
It is better to take the chance that men will manage to get by on a little less than to
overload them through over cautious reckoning of every possible contingency thereby destroying
their power to do anything effectively.
Every pound counts.
They used to when I was at a team two, they had winter warfare plethora and so you'd be up burning
calories on skis and those guys were so anal about making their gear as light as possible
was pretty impressive.
So, you know when you got a backpack or something and it's got straps, you know, that
you can loosen up or tighten up.
They would through the whole backpack, they would cut off any excess strap would be gone.
Just get everything as light as possible.
It's kind of a good strategy to follow when you travel.
You know, you know, you know, how like you know what the funny thing is, too, is I've
got this now.
I've got this pretty down.
What I'm like, you know what if I don't have this, if I don't bring this and I need
it, I'm just going to buy it.
But go to a wherever and buy it.
No factor.
No.
Yeah.
And because there's kind of those two like schools that thought, I don't know, whatever, two ways to think about it.
Where the person is like, I might need it.
So I'm going to bring it.
Another person is like, if I can't think of a specific time that I'm going to need this on the
strip, I'm not going to bring it.
And just like how you say it, if I need it, I'll buy it there.
Travel light for you tonight.
Yeah, that's all right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's all over the level.
Just unity of action develops from fullness of information.
In combat, all ranks have to know what is being done and why it is being done.
If confusion is to be kept to a minimum, this holds true in all types of operations
or whatever the service.
However, a surplus of information clouds the mind and may sometimes depress the spirit.
We can take one example.
Commander might be confronted by a complex situation and a solution may be a continuing
operation in three distinct phases.
It would be advisable that all hands be told the complete detail of phase A, but it might
be equally sensible that his subordinates only his subordinates who are closest to him be made
fully informed about phase B and phase C.
All plans and combat are subject to modification as to circumstances dictate.
This being the case.
It is not better.
It is better not to model the men by filling their minds with a seemingly conflict of ideas.
A conflict in ideas.
More important still, if the grand object seems too vast and formidable, even the
first step toward it may appear doubly difficult.
Fulness of information does not void the other principle that one thing at a time carefully
organized all down the line is the surest way, prioritizing execute.
There is no next, there is no excuse for malingering or cowardice during battle.
Is the task of leadership to stop it by whatever means would seem to be the surest cure
always making certain that in doing so it will not make a matter worse.
Next.
The armed services recognize that there are occasional individual school nervous and spiritual
makeup may be such that they are road rapidly and may suffer complete breakdown under combat
conditions.
They still may be a holy loyal and conscientious men capable of doing duty elsewhere.
Men are not alike.
In some, however, willing the spirit, the flesh may be too weak.
The punish, degrade or in any way, humiliate such men is not more cruel than ignorant.
When the good faith of any individual has been repeatedly demonstrated in the earlier service,
he deserves the benefit of the doubt from his superior pending study of his case by medical
authority.
But if the man has been a bad actor consistently, his officers were wanted in proceeding
on the assumption that his combat failure is just one more grave moral dereliction.
The failed to take proper action against such a man can only work unusual hardship on the
majority trying to do the duty.
Next.
The United States abides by the laws of war.
Its armed forces in dealing with all other peoples are expected to comply with the laws of
war in the spirit and to the letter.
In waging war, we do not terrorize helpless non-combatants.
If it is within our power to avoid doing so, want in killing, torture, cruelty, or the
working of unusual and unnecessary hardship on enemy prisoners or populations is not justified
under any circumstance.
Likewise, respect for the reign of law as that term is understood by the United States's
expected to follow the flag wherever it goes.
Piliging, looting, and other excesses are as a moral as unmoorled where Americans are operating
under military law as they are living together under civil code.
Nonetheless, some men in the American services will loot and destroy properly unless
they are restrained by fear of punishment.
War loses violence and disorder.
The inflames, passions and makes it relatively easy for the individual to get away with
unlawful actions.
But it does not lessen the gravity of his offense or make it less necessary that constituted
authority put him down.
The main safeguard against lawlessness and who lunagonism in any armed body is the integrity
of its officers.
And men know that their commander is absolutely opposed to such excesses and will take
forceful action to repress any breach of discipline they will conform.
But when an officer winks at any degradation by his men, it is no different than if he had
committed the act.
Remember that one, young leaders out there on the battlefield.
An officer winks at any degradation of his men.
There's no different than if he had committed the act.
And if you hold the discipline, if you hold the discipline, they will conform.
If they know where you fall, where you stand, I should say, if they know where you stand,
they will conform.
Next, on the field of sport, Americans always talking up to keep nerve steady and to generate
confidence.
The need is even greater on the field of war and the same treatment will have no less
effect.
When men are afraid, they go silent.
Silence of itself further intensifies the fear.
The resumption of speech is the beginning of thoughtful, collected action.
For self-evidently, two or more men cannot join strength and work intelligently together
until they know one another's thoughts.
Once a importantly, all training is an exercise in getting men to open up and become articulate,
articulate even as it is a process in conditioning them physically to move strongly together.
Once again, step and even talking is action that starts to dispeel fear.
Next, inspection is more important in the face of the enemy than during training because
a found piece of a found piece may mean a lost battle and overlooked sick man may infect
a fortress and a misled message can cost a war.
In virtue of his position, every junior leader is an inspector and the obligation to make
certain that his force at all times is inspection proof is unremitting.
And the last one I'm going to read to close out this book is here in battle crisis.
A majority of Americans present present will respond to any man who has the will and the
brains to give them a clear, intelligent order.
They will follow the lowest ranking man present if he obviously knows what he is doing
and is morally the master of the situation.
But they will not obey a chuckle head if he has nothing in his favor but his rank.
And that's it for this book and I think that closing statement.
Don't be a chuckle head.
Don't be a chuckle head and this is talked about earlier that they will follow the lowest
man.
The lowest-making ranking man present if he knows what he is doing and is morally the master
of the situation and can give a clear, intelligent order.
And I think the rest of you know if you're a chuckle head people are going to listen to
you just because of your rank and talk about that all the time.
You shouldn't use your rank.
And I think this book actually gives some pretty obvious ways to avoid being a chuckle
head.
Be humble, become, educate yourself, work out hard, physical, physicality is important.
It's all the stuff, same stuff that we talk about all the time.
And again, these are universal.
And I know we got a lot of listeners that are over.
See, this stuff is supplying to Americans for this applies basically worldwide at least
Western world.
And they've stood the test a time.
They work today.
So follow them.
And cold blind.
And lead with this lead and everything you do and start by leading yourself with these
principles because if you can't, there's no way that you can lead others if you can't
lead yourself.
And I'll tell you where little over the three-hour mark right now.
So it doesn't look like we're going to be doing Q&A this episode.
So if anyone is out, they're still listening at this point.
And they want to know how to support the podcast.
Echo, tell them how to do it.
Well, there's a few ways.
Yeah, so let's start with the, a lot of times I feel like I'm, it's just like kind of
repetitive.
Well, it is repetitive.
Yeah.
We've already had people listening for three plus hours at this point.
We can feel free to move quickly, I think.
Yeah, I think so.
But here's the thing though.
Oh, there's a butt.
I did, yeah, I did more thinking.
Where what if this is the first time somebody was listening or maybe the second time
won't be as repetitive.
Okay, but if it's person that they're going to listen to other ones, sure to go back.
Yep.
And they can listen to one of those episodes.
That's an hour and a half.
And they're going to be like, oh, I'm going to listen to a little bit more.
But right now, if we go long right now, they may not listen at all.
Yeah.
Now, some people say, what do it's fun?
We like that.
No.
Nothing is fun after three hours.
I don't know.
I went long.
Well, there's so much good information in this book though.
I'm sorry.
But I'm not really sorry.
There's a good information.
Yeah, that's the game.
It's good.
But I think we could proceed quickly.
That's what I think.
Yeah, sure.
I know no banter.
You know, I know you got things you want to talk about.
I'm not even in it.
With the stuff.
I'm going to avoid the banter.
The key here is really to, okay, look, I could, okay, we'll go into it on it.
Supplementation, you know, sometimes, hey, I don't need supplements.
I have a great diet or I'm just not into it just in general.
I have to successfully convey the importance of supplementation or at the very least the
value.
Go ahead.
So I'm not going to banter with you.
I'm just going to go ahead and get after it right here.
This far as late because you can, you know, all right.
You know, for a chocolate real quick, on it supplements, if you didn't already know,
krill oil or EDC, okay, our EDC, every day consumption of supplements, essential krill
oil for your joints.
And this is good because this is the legit one.
It's not the one where they kill a bunch of krill, grind them up and then sell it to you.
It's like the real deal that helps you.
I could tell you the story about how it helped me, but let's do the other, listen to the
other 52 podcasts if you want to hear that story.
Yeah, just understand if you're going for results on it supplements, krill oil, EDC, krill
oil, alpha brain, shrimp tech, warrior bars, even though those aren't really supplements,
they're like, but you do eat them every day.
Yeah, every day consumption.
And I got the, the pre-workout.
How was that?
Good.
I'm going to give it a shot.
Non-stimulate, by the way.
So that's not a gittery.
Yeah, nothing like this.
And it's, um, it's like there's like earth grown ingredients in there as well.
Good.
It's actually tastes good.
You know, so on it calls things earth grown ingredients.
I'm just going to like know it sounds cool.
Where else are they grown?
Space?
And when it's the cooler, if they grow, it's space or subterranean or something, what's
up?
Why are they trying to make it sound cool?
So what's good stuff?
How would they say that?
Well, the answer is grown.
The answer to that is lab grown.
If you can roast stuff in the lab or just concoct it, you know, chemically and
a lab quiet.
So I'm just saying that's the differentiator.
You win.
Which is good.
Earth grown is actually cool.
It's just a sound cool.
Okay.
And if there's any more questions.
I was thinking space grown.
I was thinking, I was thinking, I was thinking, move base alpha.
Yeah.
And if you can indicate the benefits of anything moon grown, I'm sure that they would
provide that on the website or whatever.
That's what I get it for me.
Anyway, alpha brain is proven as well.
That's the thing with neutropics, neutropicic to the help of your brain.
A lot of times people will be like, ah, that's a placebo thing.
They went through the real test to prove that it works.
Proven scientifically, fact that it's dope.
Anyway, on a dot com slash jockel, get 10% off if you want 10% off.
If you don't want 10% off, just go on a dot com.
Pay full price.
Boom.
Support everybody.
Everything.
Actually, not supporting anybody.
And you're definitely not supporting us.
If you don't do that, let's go.
Well, technically it is because it's like you're still getting your supplements.
You know, you're still getting supplementation.
We're just not getting the credit.
So just like if like you donate to a cause and you put anonymous in the thing.
And then you donate another 10% same thing.
To him saying anyway.
I'm going to just let this one go.
That's a good way.
Because I realize I'm guilty for making these things longer.
Because I'm interjecting.
I should just be quiet.
Yes, just be quiet.
Well, it's your podcast.
So you say whatever you like right here.
It's all our podcasts.
Come on.
So on it is one of the ways to support to wrap it up.
On the dot com slash jockel, get 10% off.
Help.
It's they're good.
Just trust me.
They're good.
Another good way.
Christmas is almost here, man.
It's like what?
Four, three, four days.
Something like that.
If you shop in Amazon, click through the website.
That's a good way to support.
Click through the website that's called jockelstore.com or call jockelpodcast.com.
Yeah.
Could it.
That's the website.
You got to click through.
Correct.
Yes.
Jockelpodcast.com.
Over on the side is Amazon little banner.
Click on that one before you do your image like Amazon shopping for Christmas or whatever.
Or buying any one of these books that the jockel talks about.
On the jockel store, you got to go on the menu item support.
And then I'll take you to the page with the bad.
Yeah.
Speaking of which podcast 100, as we talked about when Tim was on this podcast.
Tim Ferris was on this podcast.
We're going to do Musashi for podcast 100 because it's a big big big book.
Correct.
We need to get it on the podcast.
So that will be on the website.
So you can buy that book now because it's the thick book.
And we're going to do it for podcast 100.
Right.
You can click through.
The other thing is that's beneficial about these ways of supporting the podcast.
No advertisements on the podcast.
Except for this here, which I guess could be considered an advertisement.
But I don't want to have the analpha commercial break.
Yeah.
We would like to present.
Don't.
Something that doesn't matter.
Are you tired of sleeping?
Right.
You know that kind of stuff.
Yeah.
So yeah.
The Amazon clicked.
That's a good one.
That's like because it doesn't cost you nothing.
It's like super easy.
And it's like you're kind of just in the whole game of just, you know, reinforcements support.
Amazon click through the website for you shopping.
Boom.
You can also subscribe to the podcast.
And that seems obvious.
But sometimes you know, back to this, you know, you talk about this sometimes.
Amazon.
So you can click through Amazon.
Right.
Let's say you're going to buy something that's not expensive.
Like a bunch of pens.
Sure.
You might think, oh man, I'm just going to go directly to Amazon because that's no big deal.
Right.
We don't need to support the podcast on this purchase.
There's two problems with that.
Number one, if no one bought their duct tape without clicking through, we wouldn't get any of the benefit of having the site there.
The other thing is.
You got to exercise daily discipline in all things.
That doesn't.
If you get my point is that if you get in the habit of doing it, then you'll be in the habit.
Otherwise, if you only do it sometimes, then the time you go out and buy.
A lawn mower.
Then you know, or somebody bought a set of golf clubs and remember that guy, he says, I just bought some golf clubs.
Like a $1,000 set of golf clubs clubs.
He clicked through.
You know, so that definitely supports the podcast.
Yeah.
But it's because he had the discipline, the the.
Reen forced.
Reiteration of doing it all the time.
So it's doing it just do it all the time.
That's my recommendation.
Yeah.
It is true man.
That's kind of the key is like to remember to do it.
And here's the and everyone's duct tape counts.
Yeah.
And the end here's the thing like you're under no obligation to do that.
I'm just saying, most times you be like, hey, I want to support podcasts.
It's cool because, you know.
But at the time of, you know, hey, and you might duct tape, I go, I do it.
I buy the duct tape and it's like, oh, I forgot.
Yeah.
You know, just to kind of avoid that kind of situation.
If you have it in your mind, that's really the key is to remember to do it.
Then you're living with the guilt.
No man.
Barely can go on.
Anyway, yeah.
So yeah, do that or subscribe to the podcast or and subscribe to the podcast.
I should say.
Yeah.
It seems obvious on iTunes.
You subscribe, but I don't know if you haven't already.
Subscribe.
That's a good way to support and leave a review.
If.
If you're compelled to.
Those reviews are pretty dope.
By the way.
I'm subscribed on YouTube. We are along with the podcast and video format.
We'll do some excerpts.
Stuff you can share with people that they don't, they don't have to commit to three hours.
And, you know, however long the case may be to listen to the whole podcast.
And just listen to the, you know, three minute, one minute, five minute even, you know, things about.
Whatever case maybe.
But whatever little excerpts, you know.
I think those are beneficial.
I think.
When people share that kind with me.
I think you can learn a lot.
Prischer.
I think there's, you know, a lot to be said for it.
But they're going to give you a.
Or.
We have a store.
Jockel has a store.
It's called.
So now you say, I have a store.
We have a store.
Not my store.
Yeah, but if I say,
Jockel has a store.
It's called Jockel store.
Okay.
Sounds kind of cooler.
And original name too.
Yeah.
So I was trying to do that, but can you interrupt your, but that's cool.
There's some cool shirts on there.
Some layers on the shirts.
I'm going to let you look.
I'm going to let you see the layers on your own.
So go to jockelstore.com.
See if you can find the layers on the shirts.
I'm not saying to buy a shirt or a tank top or a hoodie or a star.
I'm not saying to buy one.
But if you feel compelled to buy one because you think they're cool, the layers hit you.
They resonate with you.
I don't like the word resonates.
Use it anyway.
If they resonate, get a shirt.
That's a good way to support.
Some patches too.
You know the ones that with the Velcro, the regulation.
Those are on there too.
Per your and other people's requests.
We have a lot of military and law enforcement that wanted.
Yeah.
Regulation size.
Second one.
In the field.
Yeah.
As they're crushing evil in the world.
They're on there too.
And whatever else, you think it's cool.
I'm going to redo the mugs.
They're going to be like a special like one.
Like a super high quality one.
The travel mugs.
Yeah.
And then yeah.
There you go.
And then a psychological warfare.
See that was a done.
That turned out good.
It did.
I'm going to tell you that.
I was listening to your explanation of what psychological warfare was.
You need to listen to it.
It is unclear.
You told the story.
But it was like, you know how we're talking to each other right now.
Yeah.
And you were telling you, kind of telling me the story.
Right.
But I know a bunch about it.
Yeah.
So when I listened to it, I said, you know what?
People that aren't that don't know what this is.
Are going to wonder what this is.
Echo ask me some questions about what I'm thinking about in certain situations of weaknesses.
Right.
Certain situations of weaknesses.
And he asked me a couple of minutes.
And I kind of told him, like, off the cuff.
Oh, I think about this and this.
And he's kind of got that looking as face when I know he's.
I know he's thinking of something.
So I said, oh, he's thinking of something.
And then the next day, you know, hey, we got to do record these.
So he, we came up with some more questions that Echo is like, oh, this is a good one.
This is a good one.
Came up with the questions.
And then I wrote down the answers and I read him into a microphone.
We recorded it because that's what Echo does.
And then he said, hey, I'm going to make this into because people ask for ring tones.
They want to be able to awake to, because they want to feel the wake to me.
A lot of rocks to stuff.
So he said, I'm going to put these on iTunes and put them for sale.
And I said, oh, well, if that's what you think.
So he, the album is called, so it's an album of clips.
They're like two or three minutes long.
They're from there for a cup.
They're for psychological warfare against moments of weakness.
Yes.
And we're in the most one with a weakness come when you want to get up in the morning.
So there's, there's actually, because I know that's a hard one for people.
There's three psychological attacks against the weakness of not getting out of bed in the morning.
There's psychological warfare against wanted to eat bad food.
There's psychological warfare against procrastination.
Just moments of weakness are covered in the psychological warfare album.
Very well covered.
And it's for sale in iTunes.
And you've got a search for juggle willing or psychological warfare.
It's a little bit hard to find because of the way iTunes is laid out because it's in spoken word.
But that doesn't drop down under music anyways.
It's kind of hard to find.
But it is on there.
And that is, in fact, another way to support the podcast because it is for sale.
Because people want to support the podcast.
And so they say, hey, how can we support the podcast?
And you know, we used to say people say, oh, do you have this thing where you can donate money?
We'll just give you money.
Oh, I don't want you just to give me money.
I want to give you something.
If you, you just don't give me money.
I'm not going to take it.
Well, well, there's been a public couple of people that have given money, which is awesome.
We appreciate it.
But for the general, for my general conscience, right?
Recipercation.
Want to give you something back.
So here's what we give you.
You give us money for the iTunes album.
You get something back.
And you know what you get back discipline in MP3 format.
That's what you get.
So check it out.
They're pretty, they're funny.
They're no screaming, but they're getting after it.
And the feedback that I've gotten is awesome.
Like everyone comes to it or so.
They're like, yeah, I've been out a bit every time.
Yeah.
I, I over, you know, I didn't procrastinate on this project.
I'm going to do that.
Debbie said, I got this project done a week early because I didn't want to procrastinate.
You know, but two side notes to that one.
So if you're going to do the alarm clock thing, this is the last time.
Clear it with your, whoever you're sleeping with your wife or whatever.
Just make sure they have the heads up because if they hear it, they're going to flip out.
Yeah, and they won't flip out because I'm going crazy.
They'll flip out because all of a sudden there's a man in the real talking.
Yeah.
That's enough to freak so bad.
Okay.
You got, you know, one.
Yeah.
It's a kind of go over it.
You know, go over the plan.
You don't want to freak people out.
Yeah.
You're significant other were reaching for their side arm.
You don't know.
Put in laser on around the room searching.
And a second side note.
Good feedback for sure.
But it's been, I look at the stats sometimes.
It's been number one.
And spoken word category on iTunes.
Number one.
That's pretty good.
There's some other good people on that list, but it's been number one.
That's awesome.
I think since I put, we put it on there.
Anyway, well, thank you everyone. Yeah, everyone that's picking that up.
Thank you.
Appreciate that.
It's awesome.
But yeah, those are, yeah, solid ways to support.
Couple other ways that you can support this one is you can get some juggle white tea.
It's probably great.
It's great.
Can get some of that stuff.
If you haven't gotten it and you think I don't like tea.
You're wrong.
Because you haven't tried this tea because it tastes, it doesn't taste, I'm telling you, it doesn't taste.
I don't know what it tastes like.
You know what it tastes like?
It tastes like what it tastes like.
There's nothing else that you compare to.
It just tastes good, really good.
And it's got a little bit of caffeine in it.
You can actually drink it before you go to bed if you need to.
You won't, and won't keep you up.
It's not that kind of caffeine.
It's different kinds of things.
It's earth-grown caffeine.
It's kind of caffeine that there's not a lot in there.
It's got antioxidants in there.
And it tastes really good.
And you can have it pre-work out post-work out pre-meal, post-meal, pre-bed after bed during bed.
You can get it out of it whenever you want.
So that's the chocolate white tea.
You can get that.
And by the way, it's now been in stock.
I'm going on like three or four or five days.
It's in stock now.
We've got a better system.
We might have another fay.
And I got some stuff on the horizon.
There might be a little dip in the system.
But it's in stock in the tin.
The luxurious tin?
The luxurious?
Or the big box, which has a hundred in it.
But reload.
Reload.
And then you can get a mug.
You can get a mug, by the way.
The mug.
It'll tell you what to do.
Every single time.
They won't tell you to do.
It's good after it.
To get that mug on their chocolate proved.
And then extreme ownership.
The book, Christmas.
Why not get it for every single person you've ever known in your life?
You might as well.
No.
Extreme ownership.
If you listen to the podcast and kind of like what we talk about here, the book, extreme ownership.
It's about the same thing.
It's about combat leadership.
Also speaking of extreme ownership.
Again, New York City may fourth and fifth.
We're doing the extreme ownership.
Mustard.
Number 002.
The last one was 001 in San Diego.
This one is 002 May fourth and fifth at the Marriott.
We're going deep on combat leadership.
Which means we're going deep on all leadership because the principles do not change.
That's cool.
Everybody that's there.
Everyone's in the game.
CEOs, middle-level managers.
Every industry you can think of.
And life's going to be there.
Echo is going to be there.
J.P. is going to be there.
In the game with you.
You know, we're not hiding behind the curtain or not backstage.
We'll be interacting hanging out doing what if we're going to do.
And I'm telling you, it's going to sell out.
So register ASAP.
I know that Echo is going to make some videos.
And the videos that he's going to make are going to show the last
Mustard.
And as soon as those videos come out, it's going to sell out.
Because I've already seen the footage.
It looks awesome.
It is awesome.
It was awesome.
And the next one is going to be awesome.
So join now.
Register now.
There's discounted tickets.
If you're law enforcement, firefighters or military,
we got discount tickets.
If you want to ask questions or get that discount.
Also, if you have like 10, 12 people coming from your coming from your company,
we can get a discount going there too.
You can email,
Mustard at echelonfront.com.
You can also check out the website.
Extremeownership.com, real original.
We thought of that one.
And we look forward to seeing you guys there in the meantime.
If you want to kind of kick it with us,
we are kicking it ourselves on the interwebs on Twitter,
on Instagram as well.
And also we're going to be on that one.
That face book.
We're going to be there.
Echo is at echel Charles and I am at Jocquillic.
And finally,
go out there and execute.
And we talk a lot about a lot of different subjects on this podcast.
And we hear from incredible leaders and the lessons that we learned today.
Lessons that were learned and lessons that are written in blood.
But those lessons are meaningless.
They're meaningless if you don't execute on them.
If you listen without doing,
you might as well not even waste your time.
Just keep being arrogant,
wasting your time not being productive,
and not living up to your potential.
Just keep wasting your life if you're not going to execute on what we learned.
But if you listen,
and then you go and you do,
then stay on it.
And remember also that the rewards don't come easy.
Don't count on any glory.
Just hold the line and stay on the path so that you know.
So that you know that you are in the game 100%.
And that you know that you are getting after it.
So until next time,
this is echo and juggle.
Out.